923	author	title	journal	abstract	0	pub_date	volume	issue	pages	0	0
1	"Adelstein, DJ"	Aggressive concurrent chemoradiotherapy and surgical resection for proximal esophageal squamous cell carcinoma	Cancer	"BACKGROUND. Proximal esophageal cancer has been a disease associated with relatively poor treatment success, partly due to advanced disease at presentation and the morbidity of the surgery required. Therefore, most patients receive palliative radiation therapy, and disease control is poor. METHODS. Between July 1990 and December 1992, nine consecutive patients with proximal esophageal squamous cell carcinoma were treated with aggressive concurrent chemoradiotherapy followed by surgical resection. Treatment consisted of cisplatin (20 mg/m2/day) and 5-fluorouracil (1000 mg/m2/day), both given as continuous intravenous infusions over 4 days concurrent with accelerated fractionation external beam radiation therapy (150 cGy twice a day to a dose of 2400 cGy). Three weeks after beginning treatment, a second course of chemotherapy and accelerated fractionation radiation therapy was administered to a total preoperative radiation therapy dose of 4500 cGy. After restaging of their disease, patients next underwent surgical resection. A single postoperative course of chemotherapy and 2400 cGy of concurrent accelerated fractionation radiation therapy was administered to those patients with residual tumor in the resection specimen. Two of these nine patients also were given 4-day etoposide infusions (75 mg/m2/day) as part of their chemotherapy and received lower induction radiation therapy doses. RESULTS. Although significant toxicity was experienced, there were no deaths attributable to the chemoradiotherapy and only one perioperative death. All nine patients underwent surgery; five required pharyngolaryngoesophagectomy. No residual tumor was found in the resection specimen in three of the nine patients. Continuous locoregional tumor control was achieved in all patients. Only two developed distant metastases. CONCLUSIONS. These results, using aggressive multimodality treatment, suggest that excellent locoregional control and long term, disease free survival can be achieved in selected patients with proximal esophageal cancer."	1994	Sep-15	74	6	1680-5	8082068	0
2	"Adelstein, DJ"	Mature results from a phase II trial of accelerated induction chemoradiotherapy and surgery for poor prognosis stage III non-small-cell lung cancer	Am J Clin Oncol	"Mature results are reported from a phase II trial of accelerated induction chemoradiotherapy and surgical resection for stage III non-small-cell lung cancer whose prognosis is poor. Surgically staged patients with poor prognosis stage III non-small-cell lung cancer were eligible for this study. Four-day continuous intravenous infusions of cisplatin 20 mg/m2/day, 5-fluorouracil 1,000 mg/m2/day, and etoposide 75 mg/m2/day were given concurrently with accelerated fractionation radiation therapy, 1.5 Gy twice a day, to a total dose of 27 Gy. Surgical resection followed in 4 weeks. Identical postoperative chemotherapy and concurrent radiation to a total dose of 40 to 63 Gy was subsequently given. Between February 1991 and June 1994, 42 eligible and evaluable patients, 23 with stage IIIA disease and 19 with stage IIIB disease, were entered in this trial. Treatment was well tolerated. The pathologic response rate was 40%. This response was complete in 5%. With a median follow-up of 54 months, the Kaplan-Meier 4-year survival estimate is 19%: 26% for stage IIIA and 11% for stage IIIB patients. Patients with a pathologic response, resectable disease, or pathologic downstaging to stage 0, I, or II had a better survival. The 4-year estimates of locoregional and distant disease control are 70% and 19%, respectively. It is concluded that although the ultimate role of concurrent chemoradiotherapy and surgery in stage III non-small-cell lung cancer must await the results of phase III clinical trials, survival and locoregional control in this study appear improved in comparison with historical experience. There is a subset of patients, able to undergo resection with pathologic downstaging, who have a projected survival equivalent to that of patients with more limited disease. Clinical or pathologic tools to identify these patients before treatment would be highly useful."	1999	Jun	22	3	237-42	10362328	0
3	"Allan, JS"	Species-specific diversity among simian immunodeficiency viruses from African green monkeys	J Virol	"The prevalence, natural history, and genetic characteristics of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infections in most feral African monkey species are presently unknown, yet this information is essential to elucidate their origin and relationship to other simian and human immunodeficiency viruses. In this study, a combination of classical and molecular approaches were used to identify and characterize SIV isolates from West African green monkeys (Cercopithecus sabaeus) (SIVagm isolates). Four SIVagm viruses from wild-caught West African green monkeys were isolated and analyzed biologically and molecularly. Amplification, cloning, and sequencing of a 279-bp polymerase fragment directly from uncultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells was facilitated by the use of nested polymerase chain reaction. The results indicated that West African green monkeys are naturally infected with SIVs which are closely related to East African SIVagm isolates. However, structural, antigenic, and genetic differences were observed which strongly suggest that the West African green monkey viruses comprise a phylogenetically distinct subgroup of SIVagm. These findings support our previous hypothesis that SIVagm viruses may have evolved and diverged coincident with the evolution and divergence of their African green monkey host. In addition, this study describes a polymerase chain reaction-based approach that allows the identification and molecular analysis of divergent SIV strains directly from primary monkey tissue. This approach, which does not depend on virus isolation methods, should facilitate future studies aimed at elucidating the origins and natural history of SIVs in feral African green monkey populations."	1991	Jun	65	6	2816-28	2033656	0
4	"Amatayakul-Chantler, S"	Molecular characterization of Limulus polyphemus C-reactive protein. II. Asparagine-linked oligosaccharides	Eur J Biochem	"The N-linked oligosaccharides of C-reactive protein (CRP) from the arachnid Limulus polyphemus, the horseshoe crab, were characterized after their release by hydrazinolysis, re-N-acetylation, and reduction with NaB3H4. High-voltage paper electrophoresis of the reduced oligosaccharides revealed only neutral species. Gel-permeation chromatography on Bio-Gel P4 yielded five fractions. The oligosaccharide fractions were further fractionated using high-voltage borate paper electrophoresis and Dionex BioLC ion-exchange chromatography. The oligosaccharides were structurally characterized by sequential exoglycosidase digestion, fragmentation by acetolysis and methylation analysis. Three major structures were found, of which two were the biantennary oligomannose type with compositions Man5GlcNAc2 (B-1), Man4GlcNAc2 (C-3) and one was the monoantennary structure Man3GlcNAc2 (D-1). The biantennary oligomannose structures B-1 and C-3 contained the structural unit Man alpha 6Man alpha 6R. This unusual arrangement of mannose linkages suggests a biosynthetic pathway in Limulus which differs from that reported in mammals, plants and the parasitic protozoa."	1993	May-15	214	1	99-110	8508812	0
5	"Andersson, U"	"N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin: a more selective inhibitor of glycosphingolipid biosynthesis than N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, in vitro and in vivo"	Biochem Pharmacol	"N-Butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) inhibits the ceramide glucosyltransferase which catalyses the first step in glycosphingolipid (GSL) biosynthesis. It has the potential to be used for the treatment of the GSL lysosomal storage diseases and is currently in clinical trials for the treatment of type 1 Gaucher's disease. However, NB-DNJ is also a potent inhibitor of other enzymes, including alpha-glucosidase I and II, which could potentially cause side effects in patients receiving life-long therapy. Wetherefore evaluated a potentially more selective GSL biosynthesis inhibitor, N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin (NB-DGJ), in vitro and in vivo. The distribution and degree of GSL depletion in the liver of mice treated with NB-DGJ or NB-DNJ were equivalent. Mice treated with NB-DGJ had normal body weights and lymphoid organ sizes, whereas NB-DNJ-treated mice showed weight loss and partial lymphoid organ shrinkage. NB-DNJ inhibited glycogen catabolism in the liver, whereas NB-DGJ did not. NB-DNJ was also a potent inhibitor of sucrase and maltase in vitro but not of lactase, while NB-DGJ inhibited lactase but not sucrase or maltase. NB-DGJ is therefore more selective than NB-DNJ, and deserves to be evaluated for human therapy."	2000	Apr-01	59	7	821-9	10718340	0
6	"Andersson, U"	Improved outcome of N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin-mediated substrate reduction therapy in a mouse model of Sandhoff disease	Neurobiol Dis	"Sandhoff disease is a severe neurodegenerative glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage disorder, currently without treatment options. One therapeutic approach under investigation is substrate reduction therapy (SRT). By partially inhibiting GSL biosynthesis, the impaired rate of GSL catabolism is balanced by a slower rate of influx of GSLs into the lysosome. In a previous study, we reported the beneficial effects of treating Sandhoff disease mice with the glucose analogue N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), a compound that inhibits the first step of GSL biosynthesis catalysed by the ceramide specific glucosyltransferase. NB-DNJ, however, exhibits adverse effects at high doses such as weight loss and GI tract distress (due to glucosidase inhibition). This might limit the therapeutic potential of NB-DNJ for treating diseases affecting the CNS where high dose therapy may be required to achieve therapeutic levels of the drug in the brain. In the present study, a more selective compound, the galactose analogue N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin (NB-DGJ), was evaluated in the Sandhoff disease mouse model. Treatment with NB-DGJ showed greater therapeutic efficacy than NB-DNJ with no detectable side effects. The ability to escalate the dose of NB-DGJ, leading to extended life expectancy and increased delay in symptom onset, demonstrates the greater therapeutic potential of NB-DGJ for the treatment of the human gangliosidoses."	2004	Aug	16	3	506-15	15262262	0
7	"Andersson, U"	Inhibition of glycogen breakdown by imino sugars in vitro and in vivo	Biochem Pharmacol	"The imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) is a glucose analogue which inhibits the glycoprotein N-glycan processing enzymes alpha-glucosidases I and II and the ceramide glucosyltransferase that catalyses the first step of glycosphingolipid biosynthesis. This and other N-alkylated DNJ compounds have the potential to inhibit other glucosidase, including acid alpha-glucosidase and alpha-1,6-glucosidase, enzymes involved in glycogen breakdown. We have investigated the effect of NB-DNJ and N-nonyldeoxynojirimycin (NN-DNJ) on glycogen catabolism. Both NB-DNJ and NN-DNJ were potent inhibitors of acid alpha-glucosidase and alpha-1,6-glucosidase in vitro. NB-DNJ and NN-DNJ inhibited liver glycogen breakdown in vivo in fasting mice. Inhibition of glycogen catabolism occurred in the cytosol and lysosomes. The liver glycogen breakdown inhibition was only induced at high doses of NB-DNJ, whereas NN-DNJ caused glycogen accumulation at lower doses. The in vivo effect of NB-DNJ on liver glycogen was transient as there was no inhibition of breakdown after 90 days of treatment. The inhibition by NN-DNJ, was more pronounced, reached a plateau at 50 days and then remained unchanged. Increased glycogen was also observed in skeletal muscle in NB-DNJ- and NN-DNJ-treated mice. Since the effects on glycogen metabolism by NB-DNJ are transient and only occur at high concentrations, it is not predicted that glycogen breakdown will be impaired in patients receiving NB-DNJ therapy. NN-DNJ is the prototype of long alkyl chain derivatives of DNJ that are entering pre-clinical development as potential hepatitis B/hepatitis C (HBV/HCV) therapeutics. Depending on the dose of these compounds used, there is the potential for glycogen catabolism to be partially impaired in experimental animals and man."	2004	Feb-15	67	4	697-705	14757169	0
8	"Arkwright, PD"	Syncytiotrophoblast membrane protein glycosylation patterns in normal human pregnancy and changes with gestational age and parturition	Placenta	"The fetally derived syncytiotrophoblast in the placenta form the major interface with the maternal circulation. Cell surface N-linked oligosaccharides are known to influence cell-cell interactions in a variety of ways. The N-linked oligosaccharide component of the human syncytiotrophoblast membrane has been purified from term placentae, and its biochemical structure analysed. Ninety-five per cent of structures were complex N-linked oligosaccharides, with the remaining 5 per cent being of the oligomannose type. Seventy-two per cent of oligosaccharides were sialylated; 50 per cent having two or more sialic acid residues. Such a population of N-linked oligosaccharides would be expected to provide a surface which inhibits interactions between trophoblast and maternal leukocytes. The temporal changes in syncytiotrophoblast N-linked oligosaccharides from the end of the second, and through the third trimester (25-41 weeks) were analysed, as were the changes which occur during parturition. There was no change in the degree of sialylation of these structures. The only significant change was a 37 per cent decrease in core fucosylation of complex N-linked sugars during gestation (P less than 0.005). Women delivered by caesarean section at term, had significantly higher levels of fucosylation (equivalent to women with a gestational age of 31-36 weeks), than those who laboured at term. Present knowledge of core fucosylation of N-linked oligosaccharides is discussed in relation to trophoblast functioning."	1991	Nov-Dec	12	6	637-51	1805204	0
9	"Arkwright, PD"	"Pre-eclampsia is associated with an increase in trophoblast glycogen content and glycogen synthase activity, similar to that found in hydatidiform moles"	J Clin Invest	"Pre-eclampsia is a placental disorder, but until now, biochemical details of dysfunction have been lacking. During an analysis of the oligosaccharide content of syncytiotrophoblast microvesicles purified from the placental chorionic villi of 10 primigravid women with proteinuric pre-eclampsia, we found an excess of glycogen breakdown products. Further investigation revealed a 10-fold increase in glycogen content (223 +/- 117 micrograms glycogen/mg protein), when compared with controls matched for gestational age at delivery (23 +/- 18 micrograms glycogen/mg protein) (P < 0.01). This was confirmed by examination of electron micrographs of chorionic villous tissue stained for glycogen. The increase in glycogen content was associated with 16 times more glycogen synthase (1,323 +/- 1,013 relative to 83 +/- 96 pmol glucose/mg protein per min) (P < 0.001), and a threefold increase in glycogen phosphorylase activity (2,280 +/- 1,360 relative to 700 +/- 540 pmol glucose/mg protein per min; P < 0.05). Similar changes in glycogen metabolism were found in trophoblast microvesicles derived from hydatidiform moles. Glycogen accumulation in villous syncytiotrophoblast may be a metabolic marker of immaturity of this cell which is unable to divide. The implications of these findings with regard to the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia are discussed."	1993	Jun	91	6	2744-53	8514882	0
10	"Arkwright, PD"	Suppression of allogeneic reactivity in vitro by the syncytiotrophoblast membrane glycocalyx of the human term placenta is carbohydrate dependent	Glycobiology	"Immunosuppressive factors isolated from trophoblast are known to block both innate and major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-dependent cell-mediated immune responses in vitro and, in some cases, in vivo. We investigated the biochemical nature of these factors, which is presently unknown. Immunosuppressive activity, assessed by inhibition of two-way MLR, was extracted from term syncytiotrophoblast microvilli using 3 M KCl. The activity resisted both extensive pronase digestion and heating to 90 degrees C for 1 h, demonstrating that intact membrane proteins were not required. Although purified protein-linked oligosaccharides released by hydrazinolysis from the syncytiotrophoblast membrane were themselves inactive, they blocked the immunosuppressive activity of the KCl extract. After pronase digestion, the activity could be fractionated by TSK 55S gel filtration, followed by C18 reverse-phase chromatography. Sequential exoglycosidase digestion of hydrazine-released sugars of the active fraction demonstrated that it contained neutral N-linked oligomannose and hybrid oligosaccharides, which normally make up < 3% of the total syncytiotrophoblast-derived protein glycan library. These glycopeptides of the active fraction were associated with membrane phospholipid micelles. The possible mechanism by which incompletely processed N-linked oligosaccharides expressed by a variety of syncytiotrophoblast membrane glycoproteins may block allogeneic reactivity when presented as polyvalent sugar groups is discussed."	1994	Feb	4	1	39-47	8186548	0
11	"Arnold, JN"	The glycosylation of human serum IgD and IgE and the accessibility of identified oligomannose structures for interaction with mannan-binding lectin	J Immunol	"Analysis of the glycosylation of human serum IgD and IgE indicated that oligomannose structures are present on both Igs. The relative proportion of the oligomannose glycans is consistent with the occupation of one N-linked site on each heavy chain. We evaluated the accessibility of the oligomannose glycans on serum IgD and IgE to mannan-binding lectin (MBL). MBL is a member of the collectin family of proteins, which binds to oligomannose sugars. It has already been established that MBL binds to other members of the Ig family, such as agalactosylated glycoforms of IgG and polymeric IgA. Despite the presence of potential ligands, MBL does not bind to immobilized IgD and IgE. Molecular modeling of glycosylated human IgD Fc suggests that the oligomannose glycans located at Asn(354) are inaccessible because the complex glycans at Asn(445) block access to the site. On IgE, the additional C(H)2 hinge domain blocks access to the oligomannose glycans at Asn(394) on one H chain by adopting an asymmetrically bent conformation. IgE contains 8.3% Man(5)GlcNAc(2) glycans, which are the trimmed products of the Glc(3)Man(9)GlcNAc(2) oligomannose precursor. The presence of these structures suggests that the C(H)2 domain flips between two bent quaternary conformations so that the oligomannose glycans on each chain become accessible for limited trimming to Man(5)GlcNAc(2) during glycan biosynthesis. This is the first study of the glycosylation of human serum IgD and IgE from nonmyeloma proteins."	2004	Dec-01	173	11	6831-40	15557177	572
12	"Arnold, JN"	Human immunoglobulin glycosylation and the lectin pathway of complement activation	Adv Exp Med Biol		2005		564		27-43	16400805	0
13	"Arnold, JN"	Human serum IgM glycosylation: identification of glycoforms that can bind to mannan-binding lectin	J Biol Chem	"The glycoprotein IgM is the major antibody produced in the primary immune response to antigens, circulating in the serum both as a pentamer and a hexamer. Pentameric IgM has a single J chain, which is absent in the hexamer. The mu (heavy) chain of IgM has five N-linked glycosylation sites. Asn-171, Asn-332, and Asn-395 are occupied by complex glycans, whereas Asn-402 and Asn-563 are occupied by oligomannose glycans. The glycosylation of human polyclonal IgM from serum has been analyzed. IgM was found to contain 23.4% oligomannose glycans GlcNAc2Man5-9, consistent with 100% occupancy of Asn-402 and 17% occupancy of the variably occupied site at Asn-563. Mannan-binding lectin (MBL) is a member of the collectin family of proteins, which bind to oligomannose and GlcNAc-terminating structures. A commercial affinity chromatography resin containing immobilized MBL has been reported to be useful for partial purification of mouse and also human IgM. Human IgM glycoforms that bind to immobilized MBL were isolated; these accounted for only 20% of total serum IgM. Compared with total serum IgM, the MBL-binding glycoforms contained 97% more GlcNAc-terminating structures and 8% more oligomannose structures. A glycosylated model of pentameric IgM was constructed, and from this model, it became evident that IgM has two distinct faces, only one of which can bind to antigen, as the J chain projects from the non-antigen-binding face. Antigen-bound IgM does not bind to MBL, as the target glycans appear to become inaccessible once IgM has bound antigen. Antigen-bound IgM pentamers therefore do not activate complement via the lectin pathway, but MBL might have a role in the clearance of aggregated IgM."	2005	Aug-12	280	32	29080-7	15955802	600
14	"Arnold, JN"	Interaction of mannan binding lectin with alpha2 macroglobulin via exposed oligomannose glycans: a conserved feature of the thiol ester protein family?	J Biol Chem	"The serum collectin mannan-binding lectin (MBL) binds to oligomannose and GlcNAc-terminating glycans present on microorganisms. Using a commercial affinity chromatography resin containing immobilized MBL we screened human and mouse serum for endogenous MBL-binding targets. We isolated the serum protease inhibitor alpha(2) macroglobulin (alpha2M), a heavily glycosylated thiol ester protein (TEP) composed of four identical 180-kDa subunits, each of which has eight N-linked glycosylation sites. alpha2M has previously been reported to interact with MBL; however, the interaction was not characterized. We investigated the mechanism of formation of complexes between alpha2M and MBL and concluded that they form by the direct binding of oligomannose glycans Man(5-7) occupying Asn-846 on alpha2M to the lectin domains (carbohydrate recognition domains) of MBL. The oligomannose glycans are accessible for lectin binding on both active alpha2M (thiol ester intact) and protease-cleaved alpha2M (thiol ester cleaved). We demonstrate that MBL is able to interact with alpha2M in the fluid phase, but the interaction does not inhibit the binding of MBL to mannan-coated surfaces. In addition to alpha2M, two other members of the TEP family, C3 and C4, which also contain oligomannose glycans, were captured from human serum using the MBL resin. MBL binding may be a conserved feature of the TEPs, dating from their ancestral origins. We suggest that the inhibition of proteases on the surface of microorganisms by an ancestral alpha2M-like TEP may generate ""arrays"" of oligomannose glycans to which MBL or other lectins can bind. Binding would lead to opsonization or activation of enzyme systems such as complement."	2006	Mar-17	281	11	6955-63	16407218	634
15	"Arsequell, G"	9-Fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl (Fmoc)-glycine coupling of saccharide beta-glycosylamines for the fractionation of oligosaccharides and the formation of neoglycoconjugates	Anal Biochem	"We have devised a new saccharide derivatization scheme to provide not only the temporary attachment of a chromophore for detecting and facilitating the chromatographic separation of carbohydrates, but also the intermediates for further derivatization to produce neoglycoconjugates. Several neutral unprotected saccharide beta-glycosylamines were formed by the direct condensation of the reducing saccharides with aqueous ammonium bicarbonate. The beta-glycosylamine derivatives of N-acetylglucosamine, di-N-acetylchitobiose, and asialo-, digalactosylated biantennary complex oligosaccharide were N-acylated separately with excess 9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl (Fmoc)-glycine. The Fmoc-glycinamido beta-derivatives of these unprotected saccharides were well separated by normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography and detected by ultraviolet absorption. Similar derivatization and fractionation of a partial acid hydrolyzate of chitin were equally successful resulting in the separation of Fmoc-glycinamido derivatives of di-N-acetylchitobiose to hepta-N-acetylchitoheptaose in the hydrolyzate. The reversibility of the Fmoc derivatization was demonstrated by treating the Fmoc-glycinamido derivative of N-acetylglucosamine with piperidine to generate its 1-N-glycyl-beta-saccharide derivative. The structure and stereochemistry of this product was confirmed by proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The 1-N-glycyl-beta-saccharide derivatives are stable intermediates for the formation of asparagine-linked neoglycoconjugates."	1994	Jan	216	1	165-70	8135348	0
16	"Aschaffenburg, R"	Crystallization of the Fv fragment of mouse myeloma protein M315	Biochem J	"The Fv fragment of mouse myeloma protein M313 was crystallized from poly(ethylene glycol) solution in the form of monoclinic crystals, space group C2 and unit cell dimensions a = 5.96 nm (59.6 A), b = 5.66 nm (56.6 A), c = 13.79 nm (13.9 A) and beta = 99.7 degrees. Some unusual effects of poly(ethylene glycol)on protein crystals were noted and are discussed."	1979	Aug-01	181	2	497-9	496896	0
17	"Ashford, D"	"The beta 1----2-D-xylose and alpha 1----3-L-fucose substituted N-linked oligosaccharides from Erythrina cristagalli lectin. Isolation, characterisation and comparison with other legume lectins"	Eur J Biochem	"The carbohydrate moieties of Erythrina cristagalli lectin were released as oligosaccharides by hydrazinolysis, followed by N-acetylation and reduction with NaB3H4. Fractionation of the tritium-labelled oligosaccharide mixture by Bio-Gel P-4 column chromatography and high-voltage borate electrophoresis revealed that it is composed of five neutral oligosaccharides. Structural studies by sequential exoglycosidase digestion in combination with methylation analysis and two-dimensional 1H-NMR showed that the major component was the fucose-containing heptasaccharide Man alpha 3(Man alpha 6)(Xyl beta 2)Man beta 4GlcNAc beta 4(Fuc alpha 3)GlcNAcol. This is the first report of such a structure in plant lectins. Small amounts of the corresponding afucosyl hexasaccharide were also identified, as well as three other minor components. The structure of the heptasaccharide shows the twin characteristics of a newly established family of N-linked glycans, found to date only in plants. The characteristics are substitution of the common pentasaccharide core [Man alpha 3(Man alpha 6)Man beta 4GlcNAc beta 4GlcNAc] by a D-xylose residue linked beta 1----2 to the beta-mannosyl residue and an L-fucose residue linked alpha 1----3 to the reducing terminal N-acetylglucosamine residue. The oligosaccharide heterogeneity pattern for Erythrina cristagalli lectin was also found for the lectins from four other Erythrina species and the lectins of two other legumes, Sophora japonica and Lonchocarpus capassa."	1987	Jul-15	166	2	311-20	3609010	0
18	"Ashford, DA"	The glycosylation of glycoprotein lectins. Intra- and inter-genus variation in N-linked oligosaccharide expression	Carbohydr Res	"Glycosylated lectins represent a series of glycoproteins with related activities and, in the case of the Leguminosae, related amino acid sequences. Therefore, they offer a model system in which to study the diversity of N-linked oligosaccharide structures of plant glycoproteins. The influence of the polypeptide on the type of oligosaccharide substitution and the problem of inter- and intra-genus variation in glycosylation can also be addressed. Analysis of the glycosylation of 18 lectins has shown that they can be classified into four qualitatively similar groups on the basis of the Bio-Gel P-4 elution profiles of the oligosaccharides released by hydrazinolysis: (a) The Erythrina cristagalli profile, with a major component at 8.8 glucose units (gu) and minor components at 8.0, 7.2, and 5.8 gu. The major component is the heptasaccharide, alpha-D-Manp-(1----3)-[alpha-D-Manp-(1----6)]-[beta-D-Xyl p-(1----2)]- beta-D-Manp-beta-D-GlcpNAc-(1----4)-[alpha-L-Fucp-(1----3)]- D-GlcNAc. (b) The Phaseolus vulgaris profile, which was characterized by peaks at 12.5, 11.7, 10.8, and 9.9 gu, in addition to the peaks at 8.8, 8.0, 7.2, and 5.8 gu mentioned above. These higher-mol.-wt. components were oligo-D-mannose oligosaccharides containing 9, 8, 7, and 6 D-mannose residues, respectively. (c) The Lonchocarpas capassa profile, which had a major peak at approximately 8 gu. (d) The soybean agglutinin profile, which has a single peak at 12.5 gu. This peak consisted solely of an oligomannose undecasaccharide containing 9 D-mannose residues. This lectin is unique in that it shows no microheterogeneity."	1991	Jun-25	213		215-27	1933938	0
19	"Ashford, DA"	Site-specific glycosylation of recombinant rat and human soluble CD4 variants expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells	J Biol Chem	"The rat and human forms of the T-cell surface glycoprotein CD4 share a common glycosylation site at the Asn270/271 position but differ with respect to the locations of the second glycosylation sites at Asn159 (rat) and Asn300 (human). The glycosylation of soluble recombinant forms of human and rat CD4 (sCD4) expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells has been characterized. The most obvious differences between the rat and human sCD4 oligosaccharides were the greater abundance of oligomannose and hybrid oligosaccharides on rat sCD4 and the presence of oligosaccharides carrying a terminal alpha-galactose residue on human sCD4. This is the first report of the occurrence of alpha-galactose residues on a glycoprotein expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Comparison of mutant rat sCD4 molecules with single glycosylation sites and glycopeptides indicated that site-specific and independent processing occurred at each glycosylation site. The glycosylation at the conserved site at Asn270 of rat sCD4 was identical to that seen for the equivalent site in human sCD4, and the oligomannose and hybrid structures were restricted to the nonconserved site at Asn159 in rat sCD4. However, there was more oligosaccharide processing at this site in a truncated form of rat sCD4 consisting of the two NH2-terminal domains. These results indicate that not only the local three-dimensional structure but also domain interactions can influence the processing at individual glycosylation sites."	1993	Feb-15	268	5	3260-7	8429003	0
20	"Axford, JS"	Comment on the article by Tomana et al	Arthritis Rheum		1989	Feb	32	2	235-6	2920059	0
21	"Bahr, GM"	"Agalactosyl IgG, antibodies to heat shock proteins, and acute rheumatic fever"	Ann Rheum Dis	"In rheumatoid arthritis an increased proportion of the N-linked oligosaccharides on serum IgG terminate with N-acetylglucosamine (agalactosyl IgG). It has recently been shown that group A streptococcal cell wall peptidoglycan/polysaccharide complex may be used to raise monoclonal antibodies which bind to this glycoform of IgG. Patients with rheumatoid arthritis also have increased levels of antibody to the 65 kD and 70 kD families of heat shock proteins, particularly to a bacterial (Mycobacterium bovis) homologue of heat shock protein hsp65. Streptococci must contain similar heat shock proteins. Acute rheumatic fever follows infection with group A streptococci, and these organisms might theoretically evoke antibody to heat shock proteins or changes in the levels of agalactosyl IgG, which is antigenically cross reactive with their cell walls. It is shown here that serum samples from patients with acute rheumatic fever do not differ from those from normal children by these criteria."	1990	Jun	49	6	383-6	2200356	0
22	"Barondes, SH"	Galectins: a family of animal beta-galactoside-binding lectins	Cell		1994	Feb-25	76	4	597-8	8124704	0
23	"Bates, B"	Biosynthesis of human fibroblast growth factor-5	Mol Cell Biol	"We have analyzed the biosynthesis of human fibroblast growth factor-5 (FGF-5) at the translational and posttranslational levels. FGF-5 RNA synthesized in vitro can be translated in rabbit reticulocyte lysates to yield a 29,500-Da protein, which is consistent with the molecular weight predicted from the coding sequence. The efficiency of FGF-5 translation is dramatically enhanced if an upstream open reading frame (ORF-1) in the RNA is deleted or if both AUG codons in ORF-1 are destroyed by point mutations, while partial enhancement is achieved by individual mutation of either ORF-1 AUG codon. These data suggest that FGF-5 synthesis requires the scanning of ribosomes past the two ORF-1 AUG codons. The introduction of these ORF-1 mutations into a eukaryotic FGF-5 expression vector increases its capacity to transform mouse NIH 3T3 cells up to 50-fold upon transfection. FGF-5 is secreted from transfected 3T3 cells and from human tumor cells as glycoproteins containing heterogeneous amounts of sialic acid. Glycosidase treatments suggest that the growth factor bears both N-linked and O-linked sugars."	1991	Apr	11	4	1840-5	2005884	0
24	"Bennick, A"	Relationship between conformationally sensitive probe binding sites on phosphorylase b	Nat New Biol		1971	Dec-01	234	48	140-3	4332179	0
25	"Bennick, A"	Ligand-enzyme interactions and enzyme regulation	Ann N Y Acad Sci		1973	Dec-31	222		175-91	4361854	0
26	"Bezouska, K"	Evolutionary conservation of intron position in a subfamily of genes encoding carbohydrate-recognition domains	J Biol Chem	"The structure of the gene encoding a chicken liver receptor, the chicken hepatic lectin, which mediates endocytosis of glycoproteins has been established. The coding sequence is divided into six exons separated by five introns. The first three exons correspond to separate functional domains of the receptor polypeptide (cytoplasmic tail, transmembrane sequence, and extracellular neck region), while the final three exons encode the Ca(2+)-dependent carbohydrate-recognition domain. These results, as well as computer-assisted multiple sequence comparisons, establish this receptor as the evolutionary homolog of the mammalian asialoglycoprotein receptors. It is interesting that the chicken receptor falls into a subfamily of proteins along with the mammalian asialoglycoprotein receptors, since the saccharide-binding specificity of the chicken receptor resembles more closely that of a different set of calcium-dependent animal lectins, which includes the mannose-binding proteins. The portions of the genes encoding the carbohydrate-recognition domains of these proteins lack introns. The results suggest that divergence of intron-containing and intron-lacking carbohydrate-recognition domains preceded shuffling events in which other functional domains were associated with the carbohydrate-recognition domains. This was followed by further divergence, generating a variety of saccharide-binding specificities."	1991	Jun-25	266	18	11604-9	2050668	0
27	"Biggar, RJ"	Genetic variants of human T-lymphotrophic virus type II in American Indian groups	Virology	"The human T-lymphotropic virus type II (HTLV-II) is found in many New World Indian groups in North and South America and may have entered the New World from Asia with the earliest migration of ancestral Amerindians over 15,000 years ago. To characterize the phylogenetic relationships of HTLV-II strains infecting geographically diverse Indian populations, we used polymerase chain reaction to amplify HTLV-II sequences from lymphocytes of seropositive Amerindians from Brazil (Kraho, Kayapo, and Kaxuyana), Panama (Guaymi), and the United States (the Navajo and Pueblo tribes of the southwestern states and the Seminoles of Florida). Sequence analysis of a 780-base pair fragment (located between the env gene and the second exons of tax/rex) revealed that Amerindian viruses clustered in the same two genetic subtypes (IIa and IIb) previously identified for viruses from intravenous drug users. Most infected North and Central American Indians had subtype IIb, while HTLV-II infected members of three remote Amazonian tribes clustered as a distinct group within subtype IIa. These findings suggest that the ancestral Amerindians migrating to the New World brought at least two genetic subtypes, IIa and IIb. Because HTLV-II strains from Amazonian Indians form a distinct group within subtype HTLV-IIa, these Brazilian tribes are unlikely to be the source of IIa viruses in North American drug users. Finally, the near identity of viral sequences from geographically diverse populations indicate that HTLV-II is a very ancient virus of man."	1996	Feb-01	216	1	165-73	8614983	0
28	"Birkett, DJ"	"Probes for the conformational transitions of phosphorylase b. Effect of ligands studied by proton relaxation enhancement, fluorescence and chemical reactivities"	Eur J Biochem		1971	Jun-29	20	4	494-508	4325876	0
29	"Blanck, O"	Introduction of selectin-like binding specificity into a homologous mannose-binding protein	J Biol Chem	"The structures of the ligand-binding C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains of selectin cell adhesion molecules and of mannose-binding proteins (MBPs) are similar to each other even though these proteins bind very different carbohydrate ligands. Our current understanding of ligand binding by E-selectin is based on structural studies of unliganded E-selectin and of MBP-carbohydrate complexes, combined with results from mutagenesis of E-selectin. Five regions of E-selectin that differ in sequence from the corresponding regions of MBP have been introduced into the carbohydrate-recognition domain of MBP. Four of the changes have little effect on ligand binding. Insertion of one stretch of positively charged amino acids alters the sugar binding selectivity of the domain so that it now binds HL-60 cells and serum albumin derivatized with sialyl-Lewis X tetrasaccharide, thus mimicking the properties of E-selectin."	1996	Mar-29	271	13	7289-92	8631744	0
30	"Bleriot, Y"	Looking glass inhibitors: efficient synthesis and biological evaluation of D-deoxyfuconojirimycin	Carbohydr Res	"1,6-Dideoxygalactostatin, the mirror image of 1-deoxy-L-fuconojirimycin, was efficiently prepared from 2,3-O-isopropylidene-L-lyxonolactone in four steps and evaluated as a glycosidase inhibitor."	2005	Dec-30	340	18	2713-8	16274755	0
31	"Block, TM"	"Characterization of mutants of herpes simplex viruses, types 1 and 2, that produce fragments of the thymidine kinase polypeptide"	Can J Microbiol	"Seven tk- mutants of herpes simplex virus, type 2 (HSV-2), and three tk- mutants of herpes simplex virus, type 1 (HSV-1), were isolated which did not produce the thymidine kinase (TK) polypeptides but formed smaller polypeptides not seen in wild-type infected cells. Positive TK mRNA selection by hybridization to the cloned tk genes followed by in vitro translation identified the TK polypeptides. Comparisons of the products of partial proteolysis of the polypeptides of four HSV-2 and two HSV-1 tk- mutants to those of the parental TK polypeptides indicated that, in each case, the novel polypeptide was a fragment of the TK polypeptide, showing that these mutants have defects in the structural gene for tk. HSV-2 mutants of this sort have not been previously described. They and the HSV-1 mutants are similar to HSV-1 mutants reported previously. In addition, it was found that TK mRNA was present early in infection but was absent late in infection, suggesting that the shutoff of TK synthesis is due to message degradation. Also, HSV-2 TK mRNA did not hybridize to the cloned HSV-1 tk gene indicating that these genes have extensively diverged."	1983	Apr	29	4	385-93	6303540	0
32	"Block, TM and Grafstrom, RH"	Novel bacteriological assay for detection of potential antiviral agents	Antimicrob Agents Chemother	"A prototype assay for the initial screening of potential antiviral agents that uses bacterial growth on selective media is described. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) protease recognition sequence was inserted into the tetracycline resistance (Tet) protein encoded by plasmid pBR322 of Escherichia coli. Expression of both the HIV protease and the modified Tet protein prevented growth in the presence of tetracycline. However, inhibition of the HIV protease restored tetracycline resistance. Thus, potential HIV protease inhibitors can be identified by their ability to confer tetracycline resistance to this bacterial strain. The assay is simple, rapid, and inexpensive, and this concept can be applied to the search for inhibitors of other viral proteases."	1990	Dec	34	12	2337-41	2088188	0
33	"Block, TM"	A herpes simplex virus type 1 latency-associated transcript mutant reactivates with normal kinetics from latent infection	J Virol	"The herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) latency-associated transcripts (LATs) accumulate in neuronal nuclei of latently infected ganglia. Explant reactivation kinetics of LAT deletion mutants in the mouse eye model have suggested a role for the LATs in the reactivation process. This report describes the construction and characterization of an HSV-1 strain HFEM mutant, TB1, disrupted within both copies of the LAT gene. TB1 contains a 440-base-pair segment of bacteriophage lambda DNA in place of a 168-base-pair deletion within the transcribed portion of the LAT gene. The 2.0-kilobase LAT was not produced after infection of tissue culture cells with TB1, but a 0.7- to 0.8-kilobase RNA was expressed. TB1 did establish latent infection after corneal inoculation as efficiently as the parental virus, and its reactivation kinetics from explanted ganglia were similar to those of HFEM. During latent infection with TB1, HSV-1 transcripts were not detectable. Rescuant virus (TB1-R) contained intact LAT genes, synthesized full-length LAT transcripts during productive infection in tissue culture, and reactivated from ganglionic explants of latently infected mice with normal kinetics. Thus, any function these transcripts have in the reactivation process appears to include the region between the putative LAT promoter and the disruption in TB1--a region of approximately 1,600 nucleotides, 800 of which encode the LATs."	1990	Jul	64	7	3417-26	2161947	0
34	"Block, TM"	An HSV LAT null mutant reactivates slowly from latent infection and makes small plaques on CV-1 monolayers	Virology	"A Herpes simplex virus type I (HSV-I) strain 17 mutant deleted between the NotI and HpaI restriction sites of the latency associated transcript (LAT) region has been constructed. The mutant, therefore, contains a deletion of the putative LAT promoter and is called 17N/H. The 17N/H isolate established latent infections in mice nearly as efficiently as its wildtype parent. However, like other LAT null mutants, 17N/H reactivates from explanted ganglia with much slower kinetics than its LAT competent parent. In tissue culture, although 17N/H produces as much virus per cell as its strain 17 parent, it produces small plaques. The small plaque phenotype appears to be due to the inability of the virus to be released from the infected cell into the medium, following low but not high multiplicities of infection (m.o.i.). The mutant was also shown to produce an aberrant LAT homologous transcript of 1.1 kb as well as overproduce an approximately 29,000-Da HSV-specific polypeptide, which is barely detectable in wildtype infected cells. Rescuants of the 17N/H defect were constructed using a 10-kb restriction fragment containing viral sequences spanning the deletion, make large plaques, and have reactivation patterns and infected cell gene product profiles indistinguishable from the 17 parent. This shows that the phenotypes observed in 17N/H are reversed when the deletion, or at most sequences within 5 kb of each side of the deletion, is corrected. The possibilities that the defect in viral egress from infected cell, the small LAT homologous transcript, and the accumulation of the 29,000 Da polypeptide are related to the delayed reactivation kinetics are discussed."	1993	Feb	192	2	618-30	8380666	0
35	"Block, TM"	Secretion of human hepatitis B virus is inhibited by the imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"The imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NBDNJ) is a potent inhibitor of the oligosaccharide-trimming enzyme alpha-glucosidase I. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) contains three surface proteins (HBs proteins) of different sizes that are singly or doubly N-glycosylated and are essential for the formation of infectious virus. Therefore, the replication and secretion of HBV in the human hepatoma cell line HepG2 were studied in the presence of NBDNJ. In the stably HBV-transfected HepG 2.2.15 cells and in HBV-infected HepG2 cells, NBDNJ suppressed secretion of HBV particles and caused intracellular retention of HBV DNA. The secretion of subviral particles was less affected. These data suggest that inhibitors of oligosaccharide trimming may be useful for antiviral therapy of hepatitis B and for the study of the intracellular transport of the viral glycoproteins."	1994	Mar-15	91	6	2235-9	8134380	0
36	"Block, TM and Zander, R"	"[Determination of base excess (BE, mmol/l) in urine]"	Anasthesiol Intensivmed Notfallmed Schmerzther		1995	Oct	30 Suppl 1		S41-2	8589115	0
37	"Block, TM"	Herpes simplex virus replication hits a nerve	J Neurovirol		1995	Jun	1	2	135-7	9222351	0
38	"Block, TM and Hill, JM"	The latency associated transcripts (LAT) of herpes simplex virus: still no end in sight	J Neurovirol	"The herpes simplex virus latency associated transcripts (LAT) are the only viral gene products that accumulate to a high concentration in the trigeminal ganglia (TG) of latently infected animals. Their abundance is particularly surprising, since they are thought to be the introns of a larger, approximately 8.3 kb precursor. LAT are not linear molecules. Therefore they are either a circle or a lariat that is not debranched. This structure could explain their unusual high stability. Moreover, the functional potential of stable, nuclear RNA has been demonstrated in other biological systems and could offer a clue as to the mechanism of action of LAT. Therefore, the non-linear nature of LAT and functional implications mean that both literally and figuratively, there is no end in sight for this unusual molecule."	1997	Oct	3	5	313-21	9372452	0
39	"Block, TM"	Treatment of chronic hepadnavirus infection in a woodchuck animal model with an inhibitor of protein folding and trafficking	Nat Med	"A novel strategy for anti-viral intervention of hepatitis B virus (HBV) through the disruption of the proper folding and transport of the hepadnavirus glycoproteins is described. Laboratory reared woodchucks chronically infected with woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV) were treated with N-nonyl-deoxynojirimycin (N-nonyl-DNJ), an inhibitor of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) alpha-glucosidases. The woodchucks experienced significant dose dependent decreases in enveloped WHV, resulting in undetectable amounts in some cases. The reduction in viremia correlated with the levels of hyperglucosylated glycan in the serum of treated animals. This correlation supports the mechanism of action associated with the drug and highlights the extreme sensitivity of the virus to this type of glycan inhibitor. At N-nonyl-DNJ concentrations that prevented WHV secretion, the glycosylation of most serum glycoproteins appeared unaffected, suggesting great selectivity for this class of therapeutics. Indeed, this may account for the low toxicity of the compound over the treatment period. We provide the first evidence that glucosidase inhibitors can be used in vivo to alter specific steps in the N-linked glycosylation pathway and that this inhibition has anti-viral effects."	1998	May	4	5	610-4	9585237	0
40	"Block, TM"	Role of glycan processing in hepatitis B virus envelope protein trafficking	Adv Exp Med Biol		1998		435		207-16	9498079	0
41	"Block, TM and Jordan, R"	Iminosugars as possible broad spectrum anti hepatitis virus agents: the glucovirs and alkovirs	Antivir Chem Chemother	"Glucosidases in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) mediate the first step in processing N-linked oligosaccharides. Recent evidence suggests that morphogenesis and secretion of members of the hepatitis B and flavivirus families are more dependent on these enzymes than are most host glycoproteins. Thus, it is possible that glucosidase inhibitors can be designed that are safe and selective for the treatment of hepatitis B and possibly C (since hepatitis C virus is a member of the flavivirus family), making them broad spectrum with respect to hepatitis viruses. Numerous pharmacological and genetic dissections support the notion that glucosidase inhibition can have an antiviral effect, and imino sugars that competitively inhibit ER glucosidases have been proposed as anti-hepatitis drug candidates. We call this family of compounds 'glucovirs'. Recently, however, alkylated imino sugars that retain substantial antiviral activity but lack glucosidase inhibitory activity have been described. These compounds are called 'alkovirs' and their mechanism of action is unknown. This review considers the rationale of the glucovir and alkovir approach to the treatment of hepatitis B and C."	2001	Nov	12	6	317-25	12018676	0
42	"Block, TM"	Molecular viral oncology of hepatocellular carcinoma	Oncogene	"Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common cancer, but the third leading cause of cancer death, in the world, with more than 500,000 fatalities annually. The major etiology of HCC/liver cancer in people is hepatitis B virus (HBV), followed by hepatitis C virus infection (HCV), although nonviral causes also play a role in a minority of cases. Recent molecular studies confirm what was suspected: that HCC tissue from different individuals have many phenotypic differences. However, there are clearly features that unify HCC occurring in a background of viral hepatitis B and C. HCC due to HBV and HCV may be an indirect result of enhanced hepatocyte turnover that occurs in an effort to replace infected cells that have been immunologically attacked. Viral functions may also play a more direct role in mediating oncogenesis. This review considers the molecular and cellular mechanisms involved in primary hepatocellular carcinoma, using a viral perspective."	2003	Aug-11	22	33	5093-107	12910247	0
43	"Block, TM"	Use of targeted glycoproteomics to identify serum glycoproteins that correlate with liver cancer in woodchucks and humans	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"Chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) is associated with the majority of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The diagnosis of HCC is usually made in the late stages of the disease, when treatment options are limited and prognosis is poor. We therefore have developed a method of glycoproteomic analysis in an attempt to discover serum markers that can assist in the early detection of HBV-induced liver cancer. Briefly, a comparative method for analysis of oligosaccharides released from serum glycoproteins and for recovery and identification of proteins with aberrant glycosylation, as a function of cancer diagnosis, is described. The model we have used is the woodchuck (Marmota monax), which shares similarities in the glycosylation pattern associated with liver proteins in human HCC. In this report, we show that woodchucks diagnosed with HCC have dramatically higher levels of serum-associated core alpha-1,6-linked fucose, as compared with woodchucks without a diagnosis of HCC. The coupling of this methodology with 2D gel proteomics has permitted the identification of several glycoproteins with altered glycosylation as a function of cancer. One such glycoprotein, Golgi Protein 73 (GP73), was found to be elevated and hyperfucosylated in animals with HCC. Further, the study showed GP73 to be elevated in the serum of people with a diagnosis of HCC, providing a validation of our approach. The potential of this technology for biomarker discovery and the implications of increased levels of GP73 in liver cancer are discussed."	2005	Jan-18	102	3	779-84	15642945	0
44	"Block, TM"	Does rapid oligomerization of hepatitis B envelope proteins play a role in resistance to proteasome degradation and enhance chronicity?	DNA Cell Biol	"This review discusses the nature of hepatitis B and C chronicity from a virological perspective. Work described in the literature and our in vitro studies of HBV polypeptide morphogenesis lead us to speculate about a role for HBsAg complex formation in immune evasion that may be especially important during the initial period of infection. Briefly, although viral structural proteins do eventually provide epitopes recognized by the host, we suggest that these HBs Ag complexes, which may themselves be refractory to proteasomal degradation, are an important way by which the virus shields its epitopes and evades early recognition by the cellular immune system. This suggests a central strategy by which the virus has evolved, structurally, to enable the establishment of persistent infection of its host. The concept offers an explanation for the nearly unidirectional and rapid kinetics whereby HBV proteins form multimers and generate a surplus of viral structures that have not been thought to serve any useful structural purpose."	2006	Mar	25	3	165-70	16569195	0
45	"Bogomolni, RA"	Reconstitution of purified halorhodopsin	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"Asolectin lipid vesicles containing halorhodopsin show light-induced acidification in the presence of proton ionophores. This effect is abolished by triphenyltin chloride, a chloride/hydroxyl antiporter, and is greatly diminished by valinomycin in the presence of potassium ions, which collapse the membrane potential. This indicates that halorhodopsin orients in the lipid vesicles preferentially inside out, pumping chloride into the extravesicular compartment. The absorption maximum of halorhodopsin in asolectin vesicles in 3 M NaCl is at 567 nm, and the action spectrum for the light-induced pH changes followed closely the absorption spectrum. Replacement of chloride by acetate or sulfate causes a shift in the absorption maximum to approximately equal to 559 nm and renders the pump inactive. The different photocycles of the two forms were used to show that 80% of the molecules have the extracellular side exposed to the vesicle interior and that the halide-binding site(s) associated with the spectral transition is accessible from the extracellular side of the molecule. The data presented demonstrate that the purified chromoprotein is the light-driven chloride pump in Halobacterium halobium."	1984	Sep	81	17	5408-11	6591196	0
46	"Bousfield, GR"	Differential effects of alpha subunit Asparagine56 oligosaccharide structure on equine lutropin and follitropin hybrid conformation and receptor-binding activity	Biochemistry	"The gonadotropins, luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and chorionic gonadotropin (CG), are cysteine-knot growth-factor superfamily glycoproteins composed of a common alpha subunit noncovalently associated with a hormone-specific beta subunit. The cysteine-knot motifs in both subunits create two hairpin loops, designated L1 and L3, on one side of the knot, with the intervening long loop, L2, on the opposite side. As the average alpha-subunit loop 2 oligosaccharide mass increased from 1482 to 2327, LH and FSH receptor-binding affinities of the dual-specificity eLH declined significantly, while the decrease in FSH receptor-binding affinity for eFSH was not significant. In the present study, we characterized hormone-specific glycosylation of alphaL2 oligosaccharides in eLHalpha, eFSHalpha, and eCGalpha preparations. MALDI mass spectrometry revealed 28-57 structures, including high mannose, hybrid, bi-, and triantennary oligosaccharides. The same intact subunit preparations and their alphaL2 loop-deglycosylated derivatives were combined with either eLHbeta or eFSHbeta, and the circular dichroism (CD) spectrum for each preparation was determined. We predicted that hybrid hormone preparations obtained by combining intact eLHalpha, eFSHalpha, and eCGalpha preparations with eLHbeta might exhibit differences in conformation that would disappear when the alphaL2 oligosaccharide attached to alphaAsn(56) was removed by selective peptide-N-glycanase digestion (N(56)dg-alpha). CD data supported the first prediction; however, elimination of alphaL2 oligosaccharide actually increased the conformational differences. The intact alpha subunit:eFSHbeta hybrids had virtually identical CD spectra, as expected. However, the N(56)dg-alpha:eFSHbeta hybrid spectra differed from each other. Oligosaccharide removal altered the conformation of most hybrids, suggesting that alphaAsn(82) oligosaccharide (located in alphaL3) also influenced gonadotropin conformation."	2004	Aug-24	43	33	10817-33	15311943	0
47	"Boutagy, J and Harvey, DJ"	Determination of cytosine arabinoside in human plasma by gas chromatography with a nitrogen-sensitive detector and by gas chromatography--mass spectrometry	J Chromatogr	"A method for the determination of cytosine arabinoside in the plasma of leukemic patients being treated with this drug is described using either gas--liquid chromatography with a nitrogen-sensitive flame ionization detector or gas chromatography--mass spectrometry (GC-MS). To increase volatility, a double derivative of cytosine arabinoside was used, prepared by acetylation and subsequent methylation. Cytidine was used as internal standard for the GC procedure. GC--MS was performed with either cytidine as internal standard and detection by single-ion monitoring or by the use of [2H3] acetate-methyl derivative of cytosine arabinoside as internal standard and subsequent multiple-ion monitoring. Attempted extraction of cytosine arabinoside from plasma with various organic solvents was unsuccessful, but protein precipitation with ethanol or trichloroacetic acid followed by washing of the aqueous residue with organic solvents to remove as many of the interfering substances as possible gave satisfactory results. The minimum detectable quantity of pure cytosine arabinoside was similar for both techniques (approximately 500 pg). However, with GC using a nitrogen-sensitive detector, the lower limit of detection from plasma was found to be approximately 40--70 ng per ml plasma whilst GC--MS showed greater analytical selectivity with a detection limit in some cases as low as 1 ng per ml plasma."	1978	Sep-01	146	2	283-96	701426	0
48	"Bouyain, S"	Minimal requirements for the binding of selectin ligands to a C-type carbohydrate-recognition domain	Glycobiology	"The C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains of E-selectin and rat serum mannose-binding protein have similar structures. Selectin/mannose-binding protein chimeras created by transfer of key sequences from E-selectin into mannose-binding protein have previously been shown to bind the selectin ligand sialyl-Lewis(X) through a Ca(2+)-dependent subsite, common to many C-type lectins, and an accessory site containing positively charged amino acid residues. Further characterization of these chimeras as well as analysis of novel constructs containing additional regions of E-selectin demonstrate that selectin-like interaction with sialyl-Lewis(X) can be faithfully reproduced even though structural evidence indicates that the mechanisms of binding to E-selectin and the chimeras are different. Selectin-like binding to the nonfucosylated sulfatide and sulfoglucuronyl glycolipids can also be reproduced with selectin/mannose-binding protein chimeras that contain the two subsites involved in sialyl-Lewis(X) binding. These results indicate that binding of structurally distinct anionic glycans to C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains can be mediated by the Ca(2+)-dependent subsite in combination with a positively charged region that forms an ionic strength-sensitive subsite."	2001	Nov	11	11	989-96	11744633	0
49	"Bouyain, S"	"An endogenous Drosophila receptor for glycans bearing alpha 1,3-linked core fucose residues"	J Biol Chem	"The genome of Drosophila melanogaster encodes several proteins that are predicted to contain Ca(2+)-dependent, C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains. The CG2958 gene encodes a protein containing 359 amino acid residues. Analysis of the CG2958 sequence suggests that it consists of an N-terminal domain found in other Drosophila proteins, a middle segment that is unique, and a C-terminal C-type carbohydrate-recognition domain. Expression studies show that the full-length protein is a tetramer formed by noncovalent association of disulfide-linked dimers that are linked through cysteine residues in the N-terminal domain. The expressed protein binds to immobilized yeast invertase through the C-terminal carbohydrate-recognition domain. Competition binding studies using monosaccharides demonstrate that CG2958 interacts specifically with fucose and mannose. Fucose binds approximately 5-fold better than mannose. Blotting studies reveal that the best glycoprotein ligands are those that contain N-linked glycans bearing alpha1,3-linked fucose residues. Binding is enhanced by the additional presence of alpha1,6-linked fucose. It has previously been proposed that labeling of the Drosophila neural system by anti-horseradish peroxidase antibodies is a result of the presence of difucosylated N-linked glycans. CG2958 is a potential endogenous receptor for such neural-specific carbohydrate epitopes."	2002	Jun-21	277	25	22566-72	11960993	0
50	"Boyd, J"	Mobility and symmetry in the Fc and pFc' fragments as probed by 1H NMR	Mol Immunol		1979	Nov	16	11	851-8	528014	0
51	"Boyd, J"	Neutron scattering studies of the isolated C1r2C1s2 subunit of first component of human complement in solution	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"The subunit complex C1r2C1s2 of the first component of complement was investigated by small-angle neutron scattering in both the activated and unactivated forms. From these experiments, a molecular weight of 390,000 for C1r2C1s2 was found. The matchpoint was determined to be 43% 2H2O. Both results are consistent with composition data. The partial specific volume is 0.751 ml/mg. The radius of gyration at infinite contrast was found to be 17 nm for C1r2C1s2 and 1.1 nm for the cross section. Models for C1r2C1s2 were computed by the method of hard spheres, in which C1r2C1s2 was represented by spheres 0.87 nm diameter arranged in a straight rod of length 59 nm and a circular cross section of 3.2 nm. This rod can be bent at one or two places by up to 60 degrees without significant effect on the calculated radii of gyration. The model is in agreement with published ultracentrifugation and electron microscopy data."	1983	Jun	80	12	3769-73	6304736	0
52	"Branza-Nichita, N"	Tyrosinase folding and copper loading in vivo: a crucial role for calnexin and alpha-glucosidase II	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	"Tyrosinase is the key enzyme of melanin biosynthesis. It is a multiply glycosylated metalloenzyme, which has a long maturation time making it an ideal in vivo model system to probe protein folding and metal loading events. The use of NB-DNJ, an alpha-glucosidase I and II inhibitor has allowed us to dissect these processes. Here we show that tyrosinase folds through several inactive intermediates, at least two of which are recognised by the ER chaperone, calnexin. If the association with calnexin is prevented, more rapid folding occurs, the resulting protein fails to bind copper and is inactive. If dissociation from calnexin is inhibited, folding is prevented; the protein does not go through the normal secretory pathway and is targeted for degradation. Thus, tyrosinase folds off calnexin, giving alpha-glucosidase II a critical role, but the association with calnexin is essential to promote the correct folding which enables it to acquire copper."	1999	Aug-11	261	3	720-5	10441492	0
53	"Branza-Nichita, N"	N-glycosylation processing and glycoprotein folding-lessons from the tyrosinase-related proteins	Chem Rev		2000	Dec-13	100	12	4697-712	11749363	0
54	"Branza-Nichita, N"	Mutations at critical N-glycosylation sites reduce tyrosinase activity by altering folding and quality control	J Biol Chem	"Tyrosinase is a copper-containing enzyme that regulates melanin biosynthesis in mammals. Mutations at a single N-glycosylation sequon of tyrosinase have been reported to be responsible for oculocutaneous albinism type IA in humans, characterized by inactive tyrosinase and the total absence of pigmentation. To probe the role that each N-glycosylation site plays in the synthesis of biologically active tyrosinase, we analyzed the calnexin mediated folding of tyrosinase N-glycosylation mutants. We have determined that four of the six potential N-glycosylation sites, including that associated with albinism, are occupied. Analysis of the folding pathway and activity of 15 tyrosinase mutants lacking one or more of the occupied N-glycosylation sites shows that glycans at any two N-glycosylation sites are sufficient to interact with calnexin and give partial activity, but a specific pair of sites (Asn(86) and Asn(371)) is required for full activity. The mutants with less than two N-glycosylation sites do not interact with calnexin and show a complete absence of enzyme activity. Copper analysis of selected mutants suggests that the observed partial activity is due to two populations with differential copper content. By correlating the degree of folding with the activity of tyrosinase, we propose a local folding mechanism for tyrosinase that can explain the mechanism of inactivation of tyrosinase N-glycosylation mutants found in certain pigmentation disorders."	2000	Mar-17	275	11	8169-75	10713140	0
55	"Branza-Nichita, N"	Antiviral effect of N-butyldeoxynojirimycin against bovine viral diarrhea virus correlates with misfolding of E2 envelope proteins and impairment of their association into E1-E2 heterodimers	J Virol	"The iminosugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), an endoplasmic reticulum alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, has an antiviral effect against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). In this report, we investigate the molecular mechanism of this inhibition by studying the folding pathway of BVDV envelope glycoproteins in the presence and absence of NB-DNJ. Our results show that, while the disulfide-dependent folding of E2 glycoprotein occurs rapidly (2.5 min), the folding of E1 occurs slowly (30 min). Both BVDV envelope glycoproteins associate rapidly with calnexin and dissociate with different kinetics. The release of E1 from the interaction with calnexin coincides with the beginning of E1 and E2 association into disulfide-linked heterodimers. In the presence of NB-DNJ, the interaction of E1 and E2 with calnexin is prevented, leading to misfolding of the envelope glycoproteins and inefficient formation of E1-E2 heterodimers. The degree of misfolding and the lack of association of E1 and E2 into disulfide-linked complexes in the presence of NB-DNJ correlate with the dose-dependent antiviral effect observed for this iminosugar."	2001	Apr	75	8	3527-36	11264342	0
56	"Branza-Nichita, N"	Role of disulfide bond formation in the folding and assembly of the envelope glycoproteins of a pestivirus	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	"Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus member of the Flaviviridae family, closely related to, and used as a surrogate model for the hepatitis C virus. Its envelope contains the E1 and E2 glycoproteins, disulfide linked into homo- and heterodimers. In this study, we investigate the role of disulfide bond formation in the folding, assembly, and stability of BVDV glycoproteins. We provide molecular evidence that intact disulfide bonds are critical for the acquirement of a stable conformation of E2 monomers. Forcing the E2 glycoproteins to adopt a reduced conformation either co- or post-translationally before assembly into dimers, determines their misfolding and degradation by proteasome. In contrast, dimerization of E2 glycoproteins results in a conformation resistant to reducing agents and degradation. Furthermore, inhibition of the ER-alpha-mannosidase activity leads to impairment of misfolded E2 degradation, demonstrating the involvement of this enzyme in targeting viral proteins towards proteasomal degradation."	2002	Aug-16	296	2	470-6	12163043	0
57	"Branza-Nichita, N"	Role of N-glycan trimming in the folding and secretion of the pestivirus protein E(rns)	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	"N-glycosylation inhibitors have antiviral effect against bovine viral diarrhea virus. This effect is associated with inhibition of the productive folding pathway of E1 and E2 envelope glycoproteins. E(rns) is the third pestivirus envelope protein, essential for virus infectivity. The protein is heavily glycosylated, its N-linked glycans counting for half of the apparent molecular weight. In this report we address the importance of N-glycan trimming in the biosynthesis, folding, and intracellular trafficking of E(rns). We show that E(rns) folding is not assisted by calnexin and calreticulin; however, the protein strongly interacts with BiP. Consistently, the N-glycan trimming is not a prerequisite for either the acquirement of the E(rns) native conformation, as it retains the RNase enzymatic activity in the presence of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, or for dimerization. However, E(rns) secretion into the medium is severely impaired suggesting a role for N-glycosylation in the transport of the glycoprotein through the secretory pathway."	2004	Jun-25	319	2	655-62	15178456	0
58	"Brewer, S"	Structure and function of X-Pro dipeptide repeats in the TonB proteins of Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli	J Mol Biol	"The TonB protein is required for several outer membrane transport processes in bacteria. A short 33-residue peptide segment of TonB has been studied by 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The sequence of this peptide segment contains multiple Glu-Pro and Lys-Pro dipeptide repeats that maintain rigid, elongated structures and flank a short connecting segment that adopts a beta-strand configuration. This TonB peptide is shown to interact specifically with the FhuA protein, the outer membrane receptor for ferrichrome-iron, providing the first direct evidence that the TonB protein interacts with outer membrane receptors. Interaction with the FhuA protein involves the extended structural element containing positively charged Lys-Pro repeats, and suggests a functional role for this segment of the TonB protein. As TonB is anchored in the cytoplasmic membrane the protein must, uniquely, span the periplasm. These data, together with studies described in the accompanying paper, suggest a model by which TonB serves to transduce conformational information over extended distances, from the cytoplasmic membrane to the outer membrane."	1990	Dec-20	216	4	883-95	2266560	0
59	"Brickman, F"	Antigenic and morphologic regeneration of epidermal basement membrane in short term organ culture of human skin	Lab Invest	"In fetal life the development of bullous pemphigoid antigen is preceded by a morphologically detectable basement membrane zone (BMZ). The present study investigated the possibility that similar morphologic and antigenic changes of the BMZ occur in short term organ culture of human skin. Twenty small pieces from each of four neonatal foreskin specimens were cultured under standard conditions. At regular intervals two pieces from each specimen were removed. One piece was frozen and cryostat sections were processed for indirect immunofluorescence using a patient's serum that was proven to have circulating pemphigoid IgG antibodies. Additional sections were stained with periodic acid-Schiff and hematoxylin and eosin. The other piece was processed for electron microscopic examination. Morphologically the BMZ started degenerating after 24 hours. Regeneration started on the 4th day and reached an optimal level on the 5th day. Chance of the immunofluorescence line at the BMZ began with a slight weakening at 24 hours followed by progressive widening and breakage until the 4th day when fluorescence was no longer detectable. Except for a few punctate areas immunofluorescence remained absent on the 5th day. Sixth day specimens, however, revealed reappearance of the immunofluorescence line in a continuous pattern. By the 7th day a second morphologic and antigenic degeneration started at the BMZ. This lag between the morphologic and antigenic regeneration of the BMZ in organ culture although shorter is comparable to the one observed during the development of the BMZ in fetal life."	1977	Mar	36	3	296-302	320385	0
60	"Brigande, JV"	Inhibition of glycosphingolipid biosynthesis does not impair growth or morphogenesis of the postimplantation mouse embryo	J Neurochem	"Whole embryo culture (WEC) of organogenesis-stage mouse embryos was adapted for glycosphingolipid (GSL) metabolic studies to evaluate the hypothesis that de novo GSL biosynthesis is a prerequisite for growth and morphogenesis of the early postimplantation embryo. WEC supports the growth and development of postimplantation mouse embryos to stages that are indistinguishable from those achieved in vivo. N-Butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin (NB-DGJ) is an N-alkylated imino sugar that specifically inhibits biosynthesis of all glucosylceramide-based GSLs. NB-DGJ inhibited glucosylceramide and lactosylceramide biosynthesis nearly completely and inhibited ganglioside biosynthesis approximately 90% in both the embryo and visceral yolk sac. NB-DGJ also significantly reduced total ganglioside content in both the embryo and visceral yolk sac as estimated by the cholera toxin immunooverlay technique. A shift in expression from the structurally simple to the structurally complex gangliosides was also observed in NB-DGJ-treated embryos and yolk sacs. Despite causing major changes in GSL biosynthesis and composition, NB-DGJ had no effect on embryo viability, growth, or morphology. The findings suggest that de novo GSL biosynthesis may not be a prerequisite for the growth and morphogenesis of the organogenesis-stage mouse embryo."	1998	Feb	70	2	871-82	9453585	0
61	"Brodsky, FM"	Localization of clathrin light-chain sequences mediating heavy-chain binding and coated vesicle diversity	Nature	"At least four distinct forms of clathrin light chains are found in mammalian cells. This molecular variability derives from tissue-specific patterns of expression of LCa and LCb genes. Sequence analysis shows an overall homology of 60% between LCa and LCb and the presence of brain-specific insertion sequences. These findings suggest that the different light chains have both shared and specialized functions. To address this question we have used a panel of monoclonal antibodies to identify two structurally and functionally distinct regions in the clathrin light-chain sequences. One region (residues 158-208) is exposed in native clathrin structures (triskelions and coated vesicles) and includes the brain-specific insertion sequences. The second region (residues 93-157), which is cryptic in native clathrin structures, is involved in binding the clathrin heavy chain and contains the region of strongest homology with intermediate filament proteins."	1987	Mar 12-18	326	6109	203-5	2434865	0
62	"Brooke, BD"	Bioassay and biochemical analyses of insecticide resistance in southern African Anopheles funestus (Diptera: Culicidae)	Bull Entomol Res	"Anopheles funestus Giles has been implicated as a major malaria vector in sub-Saharan Africa where pyrethroid insecticides are widely used in agriculture and public health. Samples of this species from northern Kwazulu/Natal in South Africa and the Beluluane region of southern Mozambique showed evidence of resistance to pyrethroid insecticides. Insecticide exposure, synergist and biochemical assays conducted on A. funestus suggested that elevated levels of mixed function oxidases were responsible for the detoxification of pyrethroids in resistant mosquitoes in these areas. The data suggested that this mechanism was also conferring cross-resistance to the carbamate insecticide propoxur."	2001	Aug	91	4	265-72	11587622	0
63	"Brooks, CJ and Harvey, DJ"	Comparison of various alkylboronic acids for the characterization of corticosteroids by gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry	Biochem J		1969	Aug	114	1	15P	5810054	0
64	"Brooks, CJ and Harvey, DJ"	Gas chromatographic and mass spectrometic studies of oximes derived from 20-oxosteroids	Steroids		1970	Feb	15	2	283-301	5413743	0
65	"Brown, NK and Harvey, DJ"	Metabolism of n-hexyl-homologues of delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol and delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse	Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet	"n-Hexyl-delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol (n-hexyl-delta-8-THC) and n-hexyl-delta-9-THC were synthesized by condensation of (1S)-cis-verbenol with 5-n-hexyl-1,3-dihydroxybenzene and administered intraperitoneally to male Charles-River CD-1 mice. Hepatic metabolites were isolated by solvent extraction and chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and identified by GC/MS. Eleven metabolites were identified from n-hexyl-delta-8-THC and sixteen from n-hexyl-delta-9-THC. The pattern of metabolites was intermediate between that previously observed from the pentyl homologues and that from n-heptyl-delta-9-THC with the major biotransformation pathway being hydroxylation and oxidation at C-11. Other metabolites were mainly hydroxylated derivatives of these compounds. Metabolites containing two hydroxy groups in the side-chain were present in low concentration. These have not been observed from lower homologues but are major metabolites of n-heptyl-delta-9-THC. Compared with the metabolism of the n-pentyl homologue, there was a trend towards the production of more hydroxy metabolites at the expense of carboxylic acids, in keeping with the general reduction of oxidation observed with other homologous cannabinoids as the chain length increases."	1988	Jul-Sep	13	3	165-76	2853671	0
66	"Brown, NK and Harvey, DJ"	In vivo metabolism of the n-butyl-homologues of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol and delta 8-tetrahydrocannabinol by the mouse	Xenobiotica	"1. n-Butyl-homologues of delta 8-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 8-THC) and delta 9-THC were synthesized from 5-butyl-1,3-dihydroxybenzene and (1S)-cis-verbenol, and the delta 9-isomer was shown to have the same g.l.c.-mass spectral characteristics as the natural product. 2. Metabolism of these cannabinoids was studied in mice following i.p. injection. Metabolites were extracted from the livers, separated from endogenous lipids by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and examined by g.l.c.-mass spectrometry. 3. Thirteen metabolites were identified from both n-butyl-delta 8-THC and n-butyl-delta 9-THC. 4. Major metabolic routes were hydroxylations in the 2', 3', 8 and 11 positions and oxidation of the resulting 11-hydroxy-metabolites to carboxylic acids. 5. Metabolism was very similar to that of the pentyl homologues, the major constituents of cannabis, but with the production of a greater proportion of acidic metabolites at the expense of alcohols."	1988	Apr	18	4	417-27	2840781	0
67	"Brown, NK and Harvey, DJ"	In vivo metabolism of the n-propyl homologues of delta-8- and delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse	Biomed Environ Mass Spectrom	"n-Propyl-delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol (n-propyl-delta-8-THC and n-propyl-delta-9-THC were synthesized by condensation of (1S)-cis-verbenol with 5-n-propyl-1,3-dihydroxybenzene and administered to male Charles River CD-1 mice. Hepatic metabolites were isolated by solvent extraction and chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and identified by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Seven metabolites were identified from each cannabinoid. Metabolism was similar to that previously observed from the penyl homologues, with the major biotransformation pathway being the production of 11-hydroxy-propyl-THCs and their oxidation to carboxylic acid metabolites. Other metabolites were mainly hydroxylated derivatives of these compounds and the corresponding 11-alcohol. Less hydroxylation at C(8) was found with n-propyl-delta-9-THC than with the pentyl homologue, and the monohydroxy metabolite, 8-alpha-hydroxy-n-propyl-delta-9-THC, was not observed, even though it was a prominent metabolite from delta-9-THC itself. Hydroxylation occurred in the side-chain at C(2')."	1988	Apr-01	15	7	403-10	2839261	0
68	"Brown, NK and Harvey, DJ"	"In vivo metabolism of the methyl homologues of delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and abn-delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse"	Biomed Environ Mass Spectrom	"Methyl-delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol (methyl-delta-8-THC), methyl-delta-9-THC and abn-methyl-delta-8-THC were synthesized by condensation of orcinol and (1S)-cis-verbenol and were administered to male Charles River CD-1 mice. Extracted hepatic metabolites were isolated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and examined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry as trimethylsilyl (TMS), (2H9)TMS and methyl ester/TMS derivatives. In addition, metabolic fractions were reduced with lithium aluminium deuteride to convert carboxylic acids to alcohols for structural correlation. Metabolites from methyl-delta-8-THC were similar with respect to the positions substituted to those produced by higher homologues; the major metabolite was methyl-delta-8-THC-11-oic acid. abn-Methyl-delta-8-THC was metabolized in a different manner. The location of the aromatic methyl group at the position adjacent to ring fusion appeared to inhibit metabolism at C(11) to a considerable extent and also to reduce the amount of the resulting alcohol from being oxidized to a carboxylic acid. This caused other metabolic pathways to become dominant, with the result that a compound containing a hydroxy group at the gem-methyl position was the major metabolite. Hydroxylation at this position has not been confirmed with any other cannabinoid, although it is thought to result in trace concentrations of hydroxy metabolites from some compounds. Metabolism of methyl-delta-9-THC was also similar to that of the higher homologues, with the exception that less metabolism occurred at C(8) and a higher percentage of the total metabolic fraction was accounted for by the 11-oic acid metabolite. Minor metabolites were mainly dihydroxy compounds and hydroxylated derivatives of delta-9-THC-11-oic acid."	1988	Apr-01	15	7	389-98	2839260	0
69	"Brown, NK and Harvey, DJ"	In vitro metabolism of cannabichromene in seven common laboratory animals	Drug Metab Dispos	"Metabolism of cannabichromene (CBC) was studied in hepatic microsomal incubates from mouse, rat, rabbit, guinea pig, cat, hamster, and gerbil. Metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate, concentrated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20, and identified by GC/MS as trimethylsilyl derivatives of both the metabolites themselves and their hydrogenated analogues. Thirteen metabolites were identified. The major metabolites were monohydroxy compounds with hydroxylation at all positions of the pentyl and methylpentenyl chains. An epoxide and its derived dihydrodiol were formed from the double bond in the methylpentenyl chains. Several unidentified decomposition products were found in the extracts from mouse, gerbil, and cat; these appeared to have been produced by the opening of the dihydropyran ring. Metabolism varied considerably between the species, although the trans-hydroxy metabolite 5'-hydroxy-CBC was the major metabolite in most cases. Metabolites hydroxylated in the pentyl chain were more abundant in mouse, rabbit, and cat; the hamster, gerbil, and cat produced the most epoxide-derived material."	1990	Nov-Dec	18	6	1065-70	1981514	0
70	"Brown, NK and Harvey, DJ"	"In vitro metabolism of cannabinol in rat, mouse, rabbit, guinea pig, hamster, gerbil and cat"	Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet	"Metabolism of cannabinol (CBN) was studied in hepatic microsomal incubates from mouse, rat, rabbit, guinea pig, cat, hamster and gerbil. Metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate, concentrated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and identified by GC/MS as TMS derivatives. Six monohydroxy metabolites were identified. These had hydroxy groups at C-11 and at all positions of the pentyl side-chain. Metabolism varied considerably between the species. 11-Hydroxylation was the most prominent route in the majority of species, but in the hamster and cat the major metabolic pathway was 4'-hydroxylation. Metabolites hydroxylated in the pentyl chain were generally more abundant in guinea pig, hamster and cat."	1990	Jul-Sep	15	3	253-8	2253656	0
71	"Brown, NK and Harvey, DJ"	In vivo metabolism of the ethyl homologues of delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol and delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse	Biol Mass Spectrom	"Ethyl-delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol (ethyl-delta-8-THC) and ethyl-delta-9-THC were synthesized by condensation of 5-ethyl-1,3-dihydroxybenzene and 1S-cis-verbenol. The two cannabinoids were administered to male Charles River CD-1 mice and hepatic metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate and isolated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20. Metabolite identification was by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry as trimethylsilyl (TMS), (2H9)TMS, methyl ester/TMS and dihydro/TMS derivatives. Metabolites from ethyl-delta-8-THC, of which six were identified, were similar with respect to the positions substituted on the terpene ring to those produced by higher homologues; the major metabolite, accounting for about 95% of the metabolic fraction, was ethyl-delta-8-THC-11-oic acid. Side-chain hydroxy metabolites were not detected. Metabolism of ethyl-delta-9-THC was also similar to that of the higher homologues with the exception that less metabolism occurred at C-8 and a higher percentage of the total metabolic fraction was accounted for by the 11-oic acid metabolite. Five metabolites were identified; minor metabolites were mainly dihydroxylated compounds and hydroxylated derivatives of ethyl-delta-9-THC-11-oic acid. A dihydro-metabolite, the C-9-axial-COOH isomer of ethyl-hexahydrocannabinol-11-oic acid, was produced by both compounds and a trace of ethyl-CBN-11-oic acid was produced by ethyl-delta-9-THC."	1991	May	20	5	324-8	1653028	0
72	"Burrows, L"	Selective binding of N-acetylglucosamine to the chicken hepatic lectin	Biochem J	"Among Ca2+-dependent (C-type) animal lectins, the chicken hepatic lectin (CHL) is unique in displaying almost complete selectivity for N-acetylglucosamine over other monosaccharide ligands. The crystal structures of the carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) from serum mannose-binding protein (MBP) and of a complex between the CRD from liver MBP and the methyl glycoside of N-acetylglucosamine were used to model the binding site in CHL. Substitution of portions of CHL into the MBP framework did not substantially increase selectivity. A bacterial expression system for the CRD of CHL was developed so that specific residues predicted to be near the 2-acetamido substituent of N-acetylglucosamine could be altered by site-directed mutagenesis. The results indicate that the ligand is bound to CHL in the same orientation as it binds to liver MBP. A tyrosine and a valine residue that probably contact the the N-acetyl group have been identified. These results, together with studies of ligand-binding selectivity, suggest that these residues form part of a binding pocket for the N-acetyl group, which confers selective binding of N-acetylglucosamine."	1997	Jun-01	324 ( Pt 2)		673-80	9182733	0
73	"Burton, DR"	Difficulties in determining accurate molecular motion parameters from proton relaxation enhancement measurements as illustrated by the immunoglobulin G-Gd(III) system	Eur J Biochem	Longitudinal and traverse proton magnetic relaxation rates for water in the hydration sphere of Gd(III) bound to non-immune rabbit IgG (immunoglobulin G) have been determined over a wide range of frequencies (4-84 MHz) at constant temperature (19 degrees C) using pulsed nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry. The rates have also been determined at temperatures between 0 and 40 degrees C for two frequencies (61 and 84 MHz). The rates were fitted to existing theory using a computer least-squares procedure. Further computer analysis was then carried out to determine the sensitivity of the best-fit error to variation in the variable parameters in the theoretical expressions used. These include the water co-ordination number (q) for which it was found large variations could occur (between approximately 2 and 8) for only small changes in the error of best-fit. It was concluded that a slow exchange contribution to the relaxation rates was important in deciding which parameters are poorly determined. A rotational correlation time (tau r) was obtained which suggested there might be considerable internal motion of the Fc region (C-terminal half of heavy-chain dimer) of the IgG molecule. However the possibility of large errors in this value prevented unequivocal conclusions being drawn.	1976	Dec-11	71	2	519-28	188653	0
74	"Burton, DR"	The determination of molecular-motion parameters from proton-relaxation-enhancement measurements in a number of Gd(III) - antibody-fragment complexes. A comparative study	Eur J Biochem	"Longitudinal and transverse proton relaxation rates for water in the hydration spheres of Gd(III) bound to the non-immune rabbit IgG fragments Fc (C-terminal half of heavy-chain dimer), pFc' (C-terminal quarter of heavy-chain dimer) and Fab (N-terminal half of heavy and light chain) have been measured at a number of frequencies and temperatures using pulsed nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry. For the fragments Fc and pFc', a full computer analysis showed that the results could be fitted by parameters of similar magnitude to those found previously for IgG. In contrast to the results for the other complexes the Fab -Gd(III) complex showed no slow exchange contribution to the relaxation rates. Under these circumstances it was found possible to obtain an accurate value for the hydration number (q) from measurements of the longitudinal and transverse relaxation rates at a chosen frequency such that the product of the nuclear Larmor frequency (omega1) and the correlation time for the dipolar relaxation processes (tauc) was approximately unity. Water-proton relaxation rates were also determined for the complex of Gd(III) with the Fv fragment of the mouse myeloma protein MOPC 315. A computer analysis of the results revealed a slow exchange contribution to the rates and this gave errors in the variable parameters similar to those observed previously for IgG, Fc and pFc'. The conclusions drawn from the different systems are discussed in terms of the present state of application of the proton relaxation enhancement technique in biology."	1977	May-16	75	2	445-53	560299	0
75	"Burton, DR"	A novel approach to water proton relaxation in paramagnetic ion-macromolecule complexes	Biochemistry	"The use of the proton relaxation enhancement (PRE) technique in solutions of macromolecules and paramagnetic ions to obtain information on molecular motion and ion-hydration numbers can be hazardous with the possibility of large errors in the derived parameters. Here we describe a method based on solvent proton-deuteron comparative relaxation measurements at a limited number of different magnetic fields for obtaining, reasonably accurately, rapidly, and unambiguously, certain of the parameters normally obtained from a PRE study. In the non-immune rabbit immunoglobulin G(IgG)-Gd(iii) system, we are able to obtain values for the ion hydration number (q), the residence lifetime of water molecules in the hydration sphere of the ion (tauM) and a correlation time of 5 ns, which can be associated to a large part with a rotational correlation time (tauR) for the Fc portion (C-terminal half of heavy-chain dimer) of the IgG molecule. This shows that there is a rapid internal motion in the Fc region. The limitations and possible applications of the method are discussed."	1977	Jan-25	16	2	250-4	836785	0
76	"Burton, DR"	The Clq receptor site on immunoglobulin G	Nature	"We propose that, the binding site for the complement subcomponent Clq on immunoglobulin G involves the last two (C-terminal) beta-strands of the C gamma 2 domain. This region contains a large number of accessible and highly conserved charged residues and charge is postulated as an important component of the Clq-IgG interaction. The conclusions are reached on the basis of accessibility and sequence conservation analyses of C gamma 2 amino acid residues, the use of specific inhibitors and chemical modification studies."	1980	Nov-27	288	5789	338-44	6776418	0
77	"Butchard, CG"	Mapping of the binding site of N-fluoroacetyl-D-glucosamine and analogues in hen egg lysozyme by 1H and 19F-NMR techniques with Gd(III) and Mn(II) as paramagnetic probes	FEBS Lett		1972	Sep-01	25	1	91-93	11946728	0
78	"Butchard, CG"	A structural study by 19 F-nuclear-magnetic resonance of the binding of sugars to lysozyme	Eur J Biochem		1972	Jun-09	27	3	548-53	5050662	0
79	"Butler, M"	Detailed glycan analysis of serum glycoproteins of patients with congenital disorders of glycosylation indicates the specific defective glycan processing step and provides an insight into pathogenesis	Glycobiology	"The fundamental importance of correct protein glycosylation is abundantly clear in a group of diseases known as congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs). In these diseases, many biological functions are compromised, giving rise to a wide range of severe clinical conditions. By performing detailed analyses of the total serum glycoproteins as well as isolated transferrin and IgG, we have directly correlated aberrant glycosylation with a faulty glycosylation processing step. In one patient the complete absence of complex type sugars was consistent with ablation of GlcNAcTase II activity. In another CDG type II patient, the identification of specific hybrid sugars suggested that the defective processing step was cell type-specific and involved the mannosidase III pathway. In each case, complementary serum proteome analyses revealed significant changes in some 31 glycoproteins, including components of the complement system. This biochemical approach to charting diseases that involve alterations in glycan processing provides a rapid indicator of the nature, severity, and cell type specificity of the suboptimal glycan processing steps; allows links to genetic mutations; indicates the expression levels of proteins; and gives insight into the pathways affected in the disease process."	2003	Sep	13	9	601-22	12773475	513
80	"Butters, TD and Hughes, RC"	Solubilization and fractionation of glycoproteins and glycolipids of KB cell membranes	Biochem J		1974	Jun	140	3	469-78	4447626	0
81	"Butters, TD and Hughes, RC"	Surface labelling for human tumour KB cells. Iodination and fractionation of membrane glycoproteins	Biochem J	"1. Human tumour KB cells growing in suspension culture were labelled by lactoperoxidase-catalysed iodination. Several major radioactively labelled proteins were detected by poly-acrylamide-gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulphate. 2. After reduction with 2-mercaptoethanol the major radioactive electrophoretic bands migrated as substances with apparent molecular weights of about 90,000, 70,000, 60,000, 50,000 and 34,000 and corresponded closely to the positions at which the major glycosylated polypeptide subunits of KB-cell homogenates migrated during electrophoresis under the same conditions. 3. All the iodinated protein bands except one were present in purified preparations of KB plasma membranes. 4. Most of the 50,000-molecular-weight species, supposedly a surface protein component labelled during iodination of intact and viable KB cells by a non-penetrating enzyme reagent, appeared in a crude nuclear pellet during fractionation. 5. The glyco-protein nature of the major external iodinated species of KB cells was confirmed by adsorption chromatography of these substances, dissolved in low concentrations of Triton X-100, on a lectin-Sepharose column. Two major enzyme markers of the KB plasma membrane, 5'-nucleotidase and alkaline phosphatase were also found to be glycoproteins. 6. Enzyme-catalysed incorporation of radioactive iodine into a fraction of low molecular weight and soluble in chloroform-methanol mixtures also occurred during lactoperoxidase treatment of intact KB cells. The partial characterization of this fraction is briefly described."	1975	Jul	150	1	59-69	1201009	0
82	"Butters, TD and Hughes, RC"	Lectin binding to mosquito Aedes aegyptii and human KB cells: structural comparisons of membrane oligosaccharides	Carbohydr Res	"High capacity adsorbents for lectins, including Lotus tetragonolobus L-fucose-binding protein, were readily prepared by conjugation of monosaccharides with commercially available, epoxy-activated Sepharose. Purified, radioiodinated lectins were bound to cells of the mosquito Aedes aegyptii and of human KB tumour. Relative to human KB cells, mosquito cells bound less of lectins specific for the sugars (L-fucose and D-galactose) that are terminal residues in many mammalian glycoproteins, whereas the number of binding sites of lectins specific for core-region sugars (D-mannose and 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-glucose) were similar. Neuraminidase, which greatly enhanced binding of peanut agglutinin or soybean agglutinin to human KB cells, had negligible effects on binding of these lectins to mosquito cells. The comparative structures of surface oligosaccharides of mosquito and KB cells are discussed in relation to the lectin-binding studies."	1978	Mar	61		159-68	647703	0
83	"Butters, TD"	Inhibition of fibronectin-mediated adhesion of hamster fibroblasts to substratum: effects of tunicamycin and some cell surface modifying reagents	J Cell Sci	"Using baby hamster kidney (BHK) fibroblasts we have studied the effect of tunicamycin, a specific inhibitor of protein glycosylation, on the ability of trypsinized cells to attach and spread onto fibronectin. Tunicamycin inhibited mannose incorporation into total acid-precipitable glycoproteins by at least 95% while glucosamine and leucine incorporation were less or hardly inhibited. Hydrolysis and analysis of [3H]glucosamine-labelled glycoproteins showed that radioactivity incorporated into cells exposed to tunicamycin was present predominantly as galactosamine, presumably present in O-glycosidically linked glycan chains whose assembly is insensitive to the drug. Treated cells exhibit reduced amounts of surface-associated fibronectin and adhere relatively poorly to plastic or collagen surfaces pre-coated with plasma or BHK cell-derived fibronectins at the minimum concentrations required to induce nearly quantitative attachment and spreading of untreated cells. Drug-treated cells do adhere and spread into a bipolar configuration on surfaces saturated with fibronectin. Cells treated with tunicamycin and then grown in the absence of the drug revert to a more normal behaviour, indicating that under certain conditions the effects of the drug are reversible. Fibronectin-mediated spreading of trypsinized BHK cells is also inhibited by pre-treatment of cells with several non-penetrating reagents reactive with cell surface amino groups, namely pyridoxal phosphate, trinitrobenzene sulphonate and fluorescein 5-isothiocyanate. Analysis of surface substitution indicates a strong correlation between the extent of amino group substitution and inability of treated cells to interact with a fibronectin lattice. While the extent of attachment under these conditions is normal, cells pretreated with a specific non-penetrating thiol reagent, p-chloromercuribenzenesulphonate fail to attach to fibronectin-coated culture dishes in a dose-dependent fashion, indicating that a biochemical distinction can be made between the processes of attachment and spreading. We conclude that both N-glycosidically linked carbohydrate moieties of BHK cell surface glycoproteins and primary amine groups present in surface proteins or lipid head groups play a role in interactions of cells with fibronectin, leading to the formation and maintenance of a stable well-spread morphology. Both N-linked glycans and surface sulphydryl groups appear to be required for an attachment process which precedes spreading."	1980	Aug	44		33-58	7002942	0
84	"Butters, TD and Hughes, RC"	Effects of tunicamycin on insect cells	Biochem Soc Trans		1980	Apr	8	2	170-1	6102937	0
85	"Butters, TD"	Steps in the biosynthesis of mosquito cell membrane glycoproteins and the effects of tunicamycin	Biochim Biophys Acta	"A cultured cell line of the mosquito, Aedes aegypti, is sensitive to tunicamycin as expected from the ability of crude membrane preparations to catalyse the formation of N-acetylglucosamine-linked dolichyl pyrophosphate. Formation of dolichylphosphomannose was also detected and this reaction was totally insensitive to tunicamycin. Incorporation of radioactive mannose into total acid-precipitable glycoproteins was inhibited greater than 90% in whole cells by tunicamycin, while the incorporation of leucine and glucosamine was less affected. Separation of the radioactive hexosamines from acid hydrolysates of cells incubated with [14C]glucosamine and tunicamycin showed predominant labelling of galactosamine, whereas in control cells not treated with the drug both glucosamine and galactosamine were labelled equally. Evidently, mosquito cells synthesise N-glycosidically linked carbohydrate chains assembled through tunicamycin-sensitive steps involving dolichyl pyrophospho-oligosaccharides, and O-glycosidically linked chains rich in N-acetylgalactosamine, the assembly of which is unaffected by tunicamycin. These results support structural evidence (Butters, T.D. and Hughes, R.C. (1981) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 640, 655-671) for the presence of high mannose N-glycans and N-acetylgalactosamine-rich O-glycans in mosquito cell glycoproteins. The absence of complex N-glycans was confirmed by the demonstration of negligible activities of N-acetylglucosaminyl-, galactosyl- and sialyltransferases responsible for assembly of the terminal sequences of N-glycans of mature mammalian glycoproteins."	1981	Feb-06	640	3	672-86	7213699	0
86	"Butters, TD and Hughes, RC"	Isolation and characterization of mosquito cell membrane glycoproteins	Biochim Biophys Acta	"Plasma membranes have been purified from an established cell line, Mos 20A of Aedes aegypti, and analysed for glycoprotein and polypeptide constituents by isoelectric focusing and sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A major glycoprotein of molecular weight 110 000 carrying binding sites for concanavalin A and soybean agglutinin has been purified to homogeneity. Although located on the cell surface, the 110 kdalton glycoprotein is not labelled by lactoperoxidase-catalysed radioactive iodination of whole cells. Analysis indicated the presence of N-glycans, containing on average nine mannose residues, and the N-acetylglucosaminyl-beta 1, 4-N-acetylglucosamine sequence. In addition, O-glycosidically linked N-acetylgalactosamine residues are present."	1981	Feb-06	640	3	655-71	7213698	0
87	"Butters, TD"	Purification to homogeneity of Charonia lampas alpha-fucosidase by using sequential ligand-affinity chromatography	Biochem J	"An alpha-fucosidase from the liver of the marine gastropod Charonia lampas was purified to homogeneity using a procedure that included cation-exchange and gel-filtration chromatography, chromatofocusing and a final series of affinity-chromatography steps which involved the following gel-immobilized ligands: N-(5-carboxy-1-pentyl)-1,5-dideoxy-1,5-imino-L-fucitol, N-(5-carboxy-1-pentyl)-2-acetamido-1,5-imino-1,2,5-trideoxy-D-glucitol and thio-beta-D-galactoside. The enzyme was found to be a tetrameric glycoprotein with a native Mr of 208,000, and to exist in a number of isoforms displaying pI values in the range 6.0-6.4. Substrate-specificity studies using a number of fucosylated oligosaccharides of the lacto-N and lacto-N-neo series and a synthetic disaccharide confirmed that the enzyme catalyses the hydrolysis of a broad range of fucosidic linkages, and established the following hierarchy of susceptibility: Fuc alpha 2Gal beta 4Glc much much greater than Fuc alpha 6GlcNAc greater than Fuc alpha 2Gal beta 4GlcNAc greater than Gal beta 3(Fuc alpha 4)GlcNAC much much greater than Gal beta 4(Fuc alpha 3)GlcNAc. Similar relative rates of hydrolysis were also demonstrated using biantennary oligosaccharide alditols as substrates which contained fucose linked either alpha 3 or alpha 6 to the N-acetylglucosaminitol residue of the chitobiosyl core."	1991	Oct-01	279 ( Pt 1)		189-95	1930138	0
88	"Butters, TD"	Structural characterization of the N-linked oligosaccharides derived from HIVgp120 expressed in lepidopteran cells	Glycoconj J	"The oligosaccharides of recombinant HIV gp120 expressed in lepidopteran Sf9 cells were analysed after hydrazine release by gel permeation and high pH anion exchange chromatography. N-Linked glycans were exclusively of the oligomannose series and no evidence for charged complex or hybrid type glycans was found. However a glycosylation reaction similar to those found in vertebrates was evident. The major glycoform of gp120, that comprised 30% of all the species analysed, was structurally identified by exoglycosidase digestion and found to be a core fucosylated structure, Manalpha1,6(Manalpha1,3)Manbeta1,4GlcNAc(Fucalpha1+ ++,6)GlcNAc. Further confirmation of the ability of lepidopteran cells to fucosylate N-linked glycans was provided by an in vitro analysis of this reaction using authentic oligosaccharide substrates."	1998	Jan	15	1	83-8	9530961	277
89	"Butters, TD"	Effects of N-butyldeoxynojirimycin and the Lec3.2.8.1 mutant phenotype on N-glycan processing in Chinese hamster ovary cells: application to glycoprotein crystallization	Protein Sci	"Heterologous gene expression in either (1) the glycosylation-defective, mutant Chinese hamster ovary cell line, Lec3.2.8.1, or (2) the presence of the alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin facilitates the trimming of N-linked glycans of glycoproteins to single N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residues with endoglycosidase H (endo H). Both approaches are somewhat inefficient, however, with as little as 12% of the total protein being rendered fully endo H-sensitive under these conditions. It is shown here that the combined effects of these approaches on the restriction of oligosaccharide processing are essentially additive, thereby allowing the production of glycoproteins that are essentially completely endo H-sensitive. The preparation of a soluble chimeric form of CD58, the ligand of the human T-cell surface recognition molecule CD2, illustrates the usefulness of the combined approach when expression levels are low or the deglycosylated protein is unstable at low pH. The endo H-treated chimera produced crystals of space group P3(1)21 or P3(2)21, and unit cell dimensions a = b = 116.4 A, c = 51.4 A alpha = beta = 90 degrees , gamma = 120 degrees , that diffract to a maximum resolution of 1.8 A."	1999	Aug	8	8	1696-701	10452614	0
90	"Butters, TD"	Inhibition of glycosphingolipid biosynthesis: application to lysosomal storage disorders	Chem Rev		2000	Dec-13	100	12	4683-96	11749362	0
91	"Butters, TD"	Control in the N-linked glycoprotein biosynthesis pathway	Chem Biol	"N-linked glycosylation is vital for the development and maintenance of eukaryotic cells. The individual steps of this complex process are slowly being elucidated. In this issue, the Imperiali group further dissects the mechanics of oligosaccharyl transferase using substrate analogs."	2002	Dec	9	12	1266-8	12498877	0
92	"Butters, TD"	New therapeutics for the treatment of glycosphingolipid lysosomal storage diseases	Adv Exp Med Biol	"Glycosphingolipid lysosomal storage diseases are a small but challenging group of human disorders to treat. Although these appear to be monogenic disorders where the catalytic activity of enzymes in glycosphingolipid catabolism is impaired, the presentation and severity of disease is heterogeneous. Treatment is often restricted to palliative care, but in some disorders enzyme replacement does offer a significant clinical improvement of disease severity. An alternative therapeutic approach termed ""substrate deprivation"" or ""substrate reduction therapy"" (SRT) aims to reduce cellular glycosphingolipid biosynthesis to match the impairment in catalytic activity seen in lysosomal storage disorders. N-Alkylated imino sugars are nitrogen containing polyhydroxylated heterocycles that have inhibitory activity against the first enzyme in the pathway for glucosylating sphingolipid in eukaryotic cells, ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase. The use of N-alkylated imino sugars to establish SRT as an alternative therapeutic strategy is described in cell culture and gene knockout mouse disease models. One imino sugar, N-butyl-DNJ (NB-DNJ) has been used in clinical trials for type 1 Gaucher disease and has shown to be an effective and safe therapy for this disorder. The results of these trials and the prospects of improvement to the design of imino sugar compounds for treating Gaucher and other glycosphingolipid lysosomal storage disorders will be discussed."	2003		535		219-26	14714898	0
93	"Butters, TD"	Small-molecule therapeutics for the treatment of glycolipid lysosomal storage disorders	Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci	"Glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage disorders are a small but challenging group of human diseases to treat. Although these disorders appear to be monogenic in origin, where the catalytic activity of enzymes in GSL catabolism is impaired, the clinical presentation and severity of disease are heterogeneous. Present attitudes to treatment demand individual therapeutics designed to match the specific disease-related gene defect; this is an acceptable approach for those diseases with high frequency, but it lacks viability for extremely rare conditions. An alternative therapeutic approach termed 'substrate deprivation' or 'substrate reduction therapy' (SRT) aims to balance cellular GSL biosynthesis with the impairment in catalytic activity seen in lysosomal storage disorders. The development of N-alkylated iminosugars that have inhibitory activity against the first enzyme in the pathway for glucosylating sphingolipid in eukaryotic cells, ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase, offers a generic therapeutic for the treatment of all glucosphingolipidoses. The successful use of N-alkylated iminosugars to establish SRT as an alternative therapeutic strategy has been demonstrated in in vitro, in vivo and in clinical trials for type 1 Gaucher disease. The implications of these studies and the prospects of improvement to the design of iminosugar compounds for treating Gaucher and other GSL lysosomal storage disorders will be discussed."	2003	May-29	358	1433	927-45	12803927	0
94	"Butters, TD"	Therapeutic applications of imino sugars in lysosomal storage disorders	Curr Top Med Chem	"The N-alkylated imino sugars have inhibitory activity against the first enzyme in the pathway for glucosylating sphingolipid in eukaryotic cells, ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase. A therapeutic approach termed 'substrate deprivation' or 'substrate reduction therapy' (SRT) aims to reduce biosynthetic capability in the cell to match the reduced lysosomal catalytic activity seen in lysosomal storage disorders. The use of N-alkylated imino sugars to establish this therapeutic strategy is described in cell culture and gene knockout mouse disease models. One imino sugar, N-butyl-DNJ (NB-DNJ) has been in clinical trials for type 1 Gaucher disease and has shown to be an effective therapy for this disorder."	2003		3	5	561-74	12570866	0
95	"Butters, TD"	Imino sugar inhibitors for treating the lysosomal glycosphingolipidoses	Glycobiology	"The inherited metabolic disorders of glycosphingolipid (GSL) metabolism are a relatively rare group of diseases that have diverse and often neurodegenerative phenotypes. Typically, a deficiency in catabolic enzyme activity leads to lysosomal storage of GSL substrates and in many diseases, several other glycoconjugates. A novel generic approach to treating these diseases has been termed substrate reduction therapy (SRT), and the discovery and development of N-alkylated imino sugars as effective and approved drugs is discussed. An understanding of the molecular mechanism for the inhibition of the key enzyme in GSL biosynthesis, ceramide glucosyltransferase (CGT) by N-alkylated imino sugars, has also lead to compound design for improvements to inhibitory potency, bioavailability, enzyme selectivity, and biological safety. Following a successful clinical evaluation of one compound, N-butyl-deoxynojirimycin [(NB-DNJ), miglustat, Zavesca], for treating type I Gaucher disease, issues regarding the significance of side effects and CNS access have been addressed as exposure of drug to patients has increased. An alternative experimental approach to treat specific glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage diseases is to use imino sugars as molecular chaperons that assist protein folding and stability of mutant enzymes. The principles of chaperon-mediated therapy (CMT) are described, and the potential efficacy and preclinical status of imino sugars is compared with substrate reduction therapy (SRT). The increasing use of imino sugars for clinical evaluation of a group of storage diseases that are complex and often intractable disorders to treat has considerable benefit. This is particularly so given the ability of small molecules to be orally available, penetrate the central nervous system (CNS), and have well-characterized biological and pharmacological properties."	2005	Oct	15	10	43R-52R	15901676	0
96	"Calarese, DA"	Antibody domain exchange is an immunological solution to carbohydrate cluster recognition	Science	"Human antibody 2G12 neutralizes a broad range of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) isolates by binding an unusually dense cluster of carbohydrate moieties on the ""silent"" face of the gp120 envelope glycoprotein. Crystal structures of Fab 2G12 and its complexes with the disaccharide Manalpha1-2Man and with the oligosaccharide Man9GlcNAc2 revealed that two Fabs assemble into an interlocked VH domain-swapped dimer. Further biochemical, biophysical, and mutagenesis data strongly support a Fab-dimerized antibody as the prevalent form that recognizes gp120. The extraordinary configuration of this antibody provides an extended surface, with newly described binding sites, for multivalent interaction with a conserved cluster of oligomannose type sugars on the surface of gp120. The unique interdigitation of Fab domains within an antibody uncovers a previously unappreciated mechanism for high-affinity recognition of carbohydrate or other repeating epitopes on cell or microbial surfaces."	2003	Jun-27	300	5628	2065-71	12829775	0
97	"Calder, PC"	Uptake and incorporation of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids into macrophage lipids and their effect upon macrophage adhesion and phagocytosis	Biochem J	"Murine thioglycollate-elicited peritoneal macrophages were cultured in the presence of a variety of fatty acids added as complexes with bovine serum albumin. All fatty acids tested were taken up readily by the cells and both neutral and phospholipid fractions were enriched with the fatty acid provided in the medium. This generated a range of cells enriched in saturated, monounsaturated or polyunsaturated fatty acids, including n-3 acids of fish oil origin. Saturated fatty acid enrichment enhanced macrophage adhesion to both tissue culture plastic and bacterial plastic compared with enrichment with polyunsaturated fatty acids. Macrophages enriched with the saturated fatty acids myristate or palmitate showed decreases of 28% and 21% respectively in their ability to phagocytose unopsonized zymosan particles. Those enriched with polyunsaturated fatty acids showed 25-55% enhancement of phagocytic capacity. The greatest rate of uptake was with arachidonate-enriched cells. Phagocytic rate was highly correlated with the saturated/unsaturated fatty acid ratio, percentage of polyunsaturated fatty acid and index of unsaturation, except for macrophages enriched with fish-oil-derived fatty acids; they showed lower phagocytic activity than expected on the basis of their degree of unsaturation. These results suggest that membrane fluidity is important in determining macrophage adhesion and phagocytic activity. However, in the case of phagocytosis, this effect may be partially overcome if the cells are enriched with fish-oil-derived fatty acids. Thus it may be possible to modulate the activity of cells of the immune system, and so an immune response, by dietary lipid manipulation."	1990	Aug-01	269	3	807-14	2117922	0
98	"Calder, PC"	Site-specific differences in the fatty acid composition of human adipose tissue	Lipids	"The fatty acid composition of triacylglycerols from fifteen distinct adipose depots taken from each of seven adult male human subjects was compared. Oleic, palmitic, linoleic, stearic, myristic, palmitoleic and vaccenic acids accounted for more than 90% of the triacylglycerol fatty acids in all sites from all subjects; a number of other fatty acids were also identified and quantified. There were large differences in the average fatty acid composition between individual subjects. There were no site-specific differences in the proportions of myristic (3.8-4.7% of triacylglycerol fatty acids), palmitic (23-29%), linoleic (6.7-9.8%) or vaccenic (4.1-4.7%) acids or in the proportions of any of the less abundant fatty acids. There were some significant site-specific differences in the proportions of palmitoleic, oleic and stearic acids. The calf depot contained more palmitoleic acid (6.41 +/- 1.09%) than the trapezius (3.12 +/- 0.55%), perirenal (3.59 +/- 0.50%) and mesenteric (3.70 +/- 0.43%) depots, more oleic acid (42.13 +/- 1.27%) than the trapezius (36.03 +/- 2.18%), perirenal (36.50 +/- 1.56%) and breast (37.13 +/- 1.55%) depots and less stearic acid (5.18 +/- 0.89%) than the trapezius (8.57 +/- 0.97%), perirenal (8.49 +/- 0.75%), mesenteric (7.87 +/- 0.42%), breast (8.02 +/- 0.75%) and clavicular (8.34 +/- 0.78%) depots. The buttock depot contained less stearic acid (6.06 +/- 0.65%) than the perirenal, mesenteric and clavicular depots, while the anterior thigh depot contained less stearic acid (6.07 +/- 0.70%) than the perirenal depot. These findings indicate that, while most human adipose depots differ little in fatty acid composition, some sites, in particular the calf, perirenal, trapezius and mesenteric depots, have site-specific properties."	1992	Sep	27	9	716-20	1487971	0
99	"Calder, PC"	Incorporation of fatty acids by concanavalin A-stimulated lymphocytes and the effect on fatty acid composition and membrane fluidity	Biochem J	"The fatty acid compositions of the neutral lipid and phospholipid fractions of rat lymph node lymphocytes were characterized. Stimulation of rat lymphocytes with the T-cell mitogen concanavalin A resulted in significant changes in the fatty acid composition of both neutral lipids and phospholipids (a decrease in the proportions of stearic, linoleic and arachidonic acids and an increase in the proportion of oleic acid). Membrane fluidity was measured using nitroxide spin-label e.s.r., and increased during culture with concanavalin A. Culturing the lymphocytes in the absence of mitogen did not affect fatty acid composition or membrane fluidity. The uptake and fate of palmitic, oleic, linoleic and arachidonic acids were studied in detail; there was a time-dependent incorporation of each fatty acid into all lipid classes but each fatty acid had a characteristic fate. Palmitic and arachidonic acids were incorporated principally into phospholipids whereas oleic and linoleic acids were incorporated in similar proportions into phospholipids and triacylglycerols. Oleic acid was incorporated mainly into phosphatidylcholine, palmitic and linoleic acids were incorporated equally into phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine, and arachidonic acid was incorporated mainly into phosphatidylethanolamine. Supplementation of the culture medium with particular fatty acids (myristic, palmitic, stearic, oleic, linoleic, alpha-linolenic, arachidonic, eicosapentaenoic or docosahexaenoic acid) led to enrichment of that fatty acid in both neutral lipids and phospholipids. This generated lymphocytes with phospholipids differing in saturated/unsaturated fatty acid ratio, degree of polyunsaturation, index of unsaturation and n - 6/n - 3 ratio. This method allowed the introduction into lymphocyte phospholipids of fatty acids not normally present (e.g. alpha-linolenic) or usually present in low proportions (eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic). These three n - 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids replaced arachidonic acid in lymphocyte phospholipids. Fatty acid incorporation led to an alteration in lymphocyte membrane fluidity: palmitic and stearic acids decreased fluidity whereas the unsaturated fatty acids increased fluidity. It is proposed that the changes in lymphocyte phospholipid fatty acid composition and membrane fluidity brought about by culture in the presence of polyunsaturated fatty acids are responsible for the inhibition of lymphocyte functions caused by these fatty acids."	1994	Jun-01	300 ( Pt 2)		509-18	8002957	0
100	"Campbell, EJ"	The ability of man to detect added elastic loads to breathing	Clin Sci		1961	Apr	20		223-31	13690228	0
101	"Campbell, ID"	Studies on the interaction of ligands with phosphorylase b using a spin-label probe	Eur J Biochem		1972	Oct	30	2	339-47	4351439	0
102	"Chapel, C"	Antiviral effect of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors on viral morphogenesis and binding properties of hepatitis C virus-like particles	J Gen Virol	"Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections are a major public-health concern. New antiviral drugs are needed urgently to complement and improve the efficacy of current chemotherapies. The morphogenesis of HCV represents an interesting, and still unexploited, novel molecular target. alpha-Glucosidase inhibitors derived from the glucose analogue deoxynojirimycin (DNJ) inhibit viral morphogenesis in cellulo via perturbation of the N-glycosylation pathway and hence the misfolding of viral glycoproteins that depend on certain N-glycans for correct folding. Due to the heavy N-glycosylation of HCV glycoproteins, it was hypothesized that such inhibitors would also affect HCV morphogenesis. To study the effect of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors on viral morphogenesis and binding properties, HCV virus-like particles (VLPs) were produced by using baculovirus loaded with HCV structural-protein genes. Here, it is demonstrated that, in the presence of these alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, viral glycoproteins synthesized and retained in the endoplasmic reticulum (i) contain unprocessed, triglucosylated N-glycans, (ii) are impaired in their interaction with calnexin and (iii) are at least partially misfolded. Moreover, it is shown that, although the production of VLPs is not affected by alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, these VLPs contain unprocessed, triglucosylated N-glycans and potentially misfolded glycoproteins. Finally, it is demonstrated that VLPs produced in the presence of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors have impaired binding properties to hepatoma cells. The inhibitors of morphogenesis studied here target steps of the HCV viral cycle that may prevent or delay viral resistance. These alpha-glucosidase inhibitors may prove to be useful molecules to fight HCV infection in combination protocols."	2006	Apr	87	Pt 4	861-71	16528036	0
103	"Chapman, TM"	Glyco- and peptidomimetics from three-component Joullie-Ugi coupling show selective antiviral activity	J Am Chem Soc		2005	Jan-19	127	2	506-7	15643858	0
104	"Chapple, PA"	Follow-up of cases of opiate addiction from the time of notification to the Home Office	Br Med J		1972	Jun-17	2	815	680-3	5031710	0
105	"Chapple, PA"	A five-year follow-up of 108 cases of opiate addiction. I. General findings and a suggested method of staging	Br J Addict Alcohol Other Drugs		1972	Mar	67	1	33-8	4504252	0
106	"Chen, YJ"	Neutral N-glycans in adult rat brain tissue--complete characterisation reveals fucosylated hybrid and complex structures	Eur J Biochem	"Oligosaccharides expressed on cell surface and extracellular matrix glycoconjugates are potentially of crucial importance in determining many cell interactions. The complexity of cellular organisation of the brain and suggested involvement of N-glycosylation in neural development, make this an ideal system to study the potential role of glycosylation in tissue development, maintenance and function. Neural tissues are known to contain some highly unusual glycan structures but the structures expressed in neural tissue have not as yet been studied systematically. As a first initiative to assess the type of N-glycosylation occurring in neural tissue, we have characterised all of the major neutral N-linked oligosaccharides expressed in adult rat using a combination of matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionisation mass spectrometry, exoglycosidase sequencing combined with normal-phase HPLC, and two-dimensional HPLC mapping. Oligomannosidic glycans, Man(9-5)GlcNAc2, constituted approximately 15% of the total brain N-glycan pool. The other neutral N-glycan components consisted of a series of diantennary structures (6.5%), (2,6)-branched triantennary glycans (1%) and hybrid structures (3%). Both the complex and hybrid N-glycans were characterised by the presence of outer-arm alpha(1,3)-fucosylation (forming the Lewis[x] determinant), alpha(1,6)-core fucosylation and a bisecting GlcNAc residue. Some of these are unusual or novel structures not having been reported elsewhere. A large proportion of the diantennary N-glycans either lacked Gal residues entirely or were unsubstituted on one Man residue of the trimannosyl core, notably the Man alpha(1,3)-arm. This isomeric form is indicative of the action of a novel beta-hexosaminidase activity and suggests a modification in the classical biosynthetic pathway for N-linked oligosaccharides. Furthermore, expression of large amounts of oligomannosidic glycans is not usually associated with tissue glycoproteins and suggests a possible involvement of these structures in neural cell interactions."	1998	Feb-01	251	3	691-703	9490042	272
107	"Cheville, AL"	Lymphedema management	Semin Radiat Oncol	"Lymphedema, defined as the abnormal accumulation of protein rich fluid dysfunction of the lymphatic system, is a common sequela of cancer therapy. The incidence is highest among patients who have undergone resection and irradiation of a lymph node bed. Recently, increased attention has been focused on the modification of anticancer therapies in an effort to minimize lymphatic compromise. Sentinel lymph node biopsy is an example of a surgical procedure developed to preserve lymphatic function. Concurrent with the development of less invasive treatments, the field of lymphedema management has evolved rapidly over the past decade. Combined manual therapy, often referred to as complex decongestive physiotherapy (CDP), has emerged as the standard of care. CDP combines compression bandaging, manual lymphatic drainage (a specialized massage technique), exercise, and skin care with extensive patient education. Case series collectively describing a mean 65% volume reduction in over 10,000 patients attest its efficacy. Pneumatic compression pumps were historically widely used to control lymphedema. Their use as an isolated treatment modality is now rare. Reliance on pumps diminished with the recognition that they may exacerbate truncal and genital lymphedema, as well as injure peripheral lymphatics when applied at high pressures. Many noncompressive approaches, particularly the use of benzopyrone medications and liposuction, continue to be used abroad."	2003	Jul	13	3	290-301	12903017	0
108	"Cheville, AL"	The grading of lymphedema in oncology clinical trials	Semin Radiat Oncol	"Lymphedema is a common late toxicity of cancer therapy. This article describes the rationale and process utilized by the Lymphedema Working Group for the revision and expansion of the Common Toxicity Criteria version 2 (CTC v2.0) lymphedema criteria to produce the CTC v3.0 lymphedema criteria. Established clinician-based rating scales and quantitative instruments are reviewed in this article. None of the extant rating scales have been formally validated, nor has their reliability been assessed. Drawbacks of current scales were considered in formulating CTC v3.0 criteria. Most rely exclusively on volume to diagnose and grade lymphedema. This imposes significant clinical limitations, particularly in the assessment of toxicity in oncology clinical trials. Volume-based rating scales are of little value in rating the severity of bilateral limb and nonlimb edema. Problems with nonvolumetric staging systems (eg, CTC v2.0) include insufficient detail to permit useful discrimination of severity among the majority of lymphedema patients. Technologies for objectively quantifying lymphedema have been developed and validated. Although these are briefly reviewed, it is recognized that cost and access issues limit their widespread clinical utility and, as such, were not considered in developing the CTC v3.0 criteria. The CTC v3.0 lymphedema criteria adopted several innovations. Principle among these was the decision to generate separate criteria for volumetric increase, dermal changes, and subcutaneous fibrosis. We anticipate the use of the new CTC v3.0 lymphedema criteria to begin in mid-2003 for grading the key clinical features of this disorder in oncology clinical trials. The purpose of this article is to familiarize the reader with (1) background on the clinical features of lymphedema, (2) information on established lymphedema rating systems, (3) the consensus process and rationale of the Lymphedema Working Group, (4) the new CTC v3.0, and (5) quantitative techniques for assessment of lymphedema."	2003	Jul	13	3	214-25	12903011	0
109	"Chiacchia, KB and Drickamer, K"	Direct evidence for the transmembrane orientation of the hepatic glycoprotein receptors	J Biol Chem	"The technique of vectorial labeling has been used to study the orientation of the rat and chicken receptors for asialo- and agalactoglycoproteins in hepatocyte membranes. The membrane-impermeant enzyme lactoperoxidase was used to radioiodinate the outer surfaces of intact cells and endocytic vesicles, as well as both sides of total microsomal membranes. Proteolytically and chemically produced fragments of the receptor polypeptides were analyzed to identify the tyrosine residues modified in each case. The results reveal that each of these receptors is a transmembrane glycoprotein arranged with its NH2 terminus facing the cytoplasm and its COOH terminus, containing the carbohydrate-binding site, exposed at the cell surface. While the primary structures of the chicken and rat receptors are highly homologous in the extracellular portions of the proteins, the cytoplasmic domains show no sequence similarity."	1984	Dec-25	259	24	15440-6	6150936	0
110	"Childs, RA"	Neoglycolipids as probes of oligosaccharide recognition by recombinant and natural mannose-binding proteins of the rat and man	Biochem J	"Oligosaccharide recognition by three mammalian mannose-binding proteins was investigated by using as probes a series of structurally characterized neoglycolipids in t.l.c. binding assays. The neoglycolipids were derived from N-linked oligosaccharides of complex, high-mannose and hybrid types and from human milk oligosaccharides and simple di- and tri-saccharides. The three proteins, namely the recombinant carbohydrate-recognition domain of rat mannose-binding Protein A and the multi-subunit forms of rat and human serum mannose-binding proteins, were shown to have in common reactivity with oligosaccharide probes containing one or more non-reducing terminal N-acetylglucosamine residue(s). Substitution with galactose masks reactivity. The three proteins also bound to non-reducing terminal mannose residues in high-mannose-type oligosaccharides, non-reducing terminal fucose residues in the sequence Fuc alpha 1-4(Gal beta 1-3)GlcNAc and non-reducing terminal glucose residues in dextran oligomers; the recombinant binding domain gave consistently weaker binding. The relative reactivities with the various probes differ for each protein. Overall, the reaction patterns of the three mammalian proteins differ from that of the plant lectin concanavalin A, which showed preferential binding to the high-mannose type, weak binding to biantennary complex type and no binding to the fuco-oligosaccharide and simple oligosaccharide probes. As a group, the three mammalian proteins resemble bovine serum conglutinin and behave as lectins with rather broad sugar specificities directed at certain non-reducing terminal N-acetylglucosamine, mannose, glucose and fucose residues, but with subtle differences in fine specificities. These results illustrate the potential of neoglycolipids in studies of oligosaccharide recognition by natural and recombinant proteins of diverse biological systems."	1989	Aug-15	262	1	131-8	2818558	0
111	"Childs, RA"	Differential recognition of core and terminal portions of oligosaccharide ligands by carbohydrate-recognition domains of two mannose-binding proteins	J Biol Chem	"Two different mannose-binding proteins (MBP-A and MBP-C), which show 56% sequence identity, are present in rat serum and liver. It has previously been shown that MBP-A binds to a range of monosaccharide-bovine serum albumin conjugates, and that, among oligosaccharide ligands tested, preferential binding is to terminal nonreducing N-acetylglucosamine residues of complex type N-linked oligosaccharides. In order to compare the binding specificity of MBP-C, an expression system has been developed for production of a fragment of this protein which contains the COOH-terminal carbohydrate-recognition domain. After radioiodination, the domain has been used to probe natural glycoproteins, neoglycoproteins, and neoglycolipids. Like MBP-A, MBP-C binds several different monosaccharides conjugated to bovine serum albumin, including mannose, fucose, and N-acetylglucosamine, although binding to the last of these is relatively weaker than observed for MBP-A. The results of binding to natural glycoproteins and to neoglycolipids containing oligosaccharides derived from these proteins are most compatible with the interpretation that MBP-C interacts primarily with the trimannosyl core of complex N-linked oligosaccharides, with additional ligands being terminal fucose and perhaps also peripheral mannose residues of high mannose type oligosaccharides. This binding specificity is thus quite distinct from that of MBP-A. The presence of multiple MBPs with distinct binding specificities in preparations derived from serum and liver explains conflicting conclusions which have been reached about carbohydrate recognition by these proteins."	1990	Dec-05	265	34	20770-7	2249985	0
112	"Childs, RA"	Specificity of lung surfactant protein SP-A for both the carbohydrate and the lipid moieties of certain neutral glycolipids	J Biol Chem	"Binding specificity of the major surfactant protein SP-A from human and dog lung has been investigated. Radiobinding experiments have shown that both proteins bind in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner to galactose, mannose, fucose, and glucose linked to bovine serum albumin. These results are in accord with a previous study in which monosaccharides were linked to agarose (Haagsman, H. P., Hawgood, S., Sargeant, T., Buckley, D., White, R. T., Drickamer, K., and Benson, B. J. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 13877-13880). Chromatogram overlays in conjunction with in situ liquid secondary ion mass spectrometry (TLC-LSIMS) of several purified glycosphingolipids and neoglycolipids as well as binding assays with glycolipids immobilized on plastic wells, demonstrate recognition of galactose (human and dog SP-A), glucose, and lactose (human SP-A) in association with specific lipids. In addition, the occurrence of several neutral and acidic glycosphingolipids in human and rat extracellular surfactants and rat alveolar type II cells is described. Selected components among the neutral glycolipids are bound by radiolabeled human SP-A; these are identified by TLC-LSIMS as predominantly ceramide mono- and disaccharides (human surfactant) and ceramide tri- and tetrasaccharides (rat surfactant and type II cells). A recombinant carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD) of human SP-A inhibits the binding of human SP-A to galactosyl ceramide and to galactose- and mannose-bovine serum albumin, indicating that the CRD is directly involved in the binding of SP-A to these ligands. These results provide evidence for a novel type of binding specificity for proteins that have Ca(2+)-dependent CRDs and raise the possibility that glycosphingolipids are endogenous ligands for SP-A."	1992	May-15	267	14	9972-9	1577827	0
113	"Clark, RA"	"Identification of lectin-purified neural glycoproteins, GPs 180, 116, and 110, with NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits: conservation of glycosylation at the synapse"	J Neurochem	"The postsynaptic apparatus is associated with a number of glycoproteins with apparent molecular masses of 180, 116, and 110 kDa, which are highly concentrated in and may be uniquely associated with this structure. These glycoproteins, purified by concanavalin A lectin-affinity chromatography, showed immunoreactivity in the present study with subunit-specific antibodies to glutamate receptors as follows: GP 180, NMDA receptor subunits NR2A/NR2B; GP 116, NMDA receptor NR1 (1a); and GP 110, pan-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (pan-AMPA) receptors. Sensitivities to the glycosidases peptide N-glycosidase F and endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H on both western blots and silver-stained gels suggested that the glutamate receptors were at least major constituents of the glycoprotein bands. Similar detailed glycosylation was observed for all three glycoproteins, with neutral oligosaccharides being dominant. Oligomannosidic glycans (with from five to nine mannoses) accounted for approximately 50% of the neutral sugars, with Man 5 (at almost 20% of the neutral sugars) always the major glycan. Other abundant neutral oligosaccharides were of the complex type. Similar sensitivities to peptide N-glycosidase F and endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H were observed for cell line-expressed NMDA receptor subunits, suggesting that irrespective of the glycosylation processing available, the least highly processed oligosaccharides will be expressed. This may be indicative of glycosylation sites in these receptors that are inaccessible to the later processing enzymes and favours the oligomannosidic class of glycans in functional roles."	1998	Jun	70	6	2594-605	9603226	0
114	"Clark, RA"	"Characterisation of tissue-specific oligosaccharides from rat brain and kidney membrane preparations enriched in Na+,K+-ATPase"	Glycoconj J	"The organ-specific nature of the glycosylation of Na+,K+-ATPase-enriched preparations from kidney and brain tissues has earlier been indicated by the use of lectin-staining techniques. Na+,K+-ATPase is ubiquitous and abundant, and subject to upregulation during cell-division and in certain pathological conditions. Lectins specific for the different carbohydrates displayed by the Na+,K+-ATPases may, therefore, be useful carriers/mediators in tissue-specific targeting. N-linked oligosaccharides purified from Na+,K+-ATPase-enriched preparations from rat brain and kidney were consequently characterised in detail in this study using weak anion exchange and normal phase HPLC (combined with serial glycosidase digestions) and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation mass spectrometry. The oligomannose series of glycans were most abundant in the brain tissue preparation and this contrasted with the renal-associated oligosaccharides that were dominated by families of tetra-antennary glycans (with/without a core fucose) with up to four lactosaminylglycan residues in either branched or linear formation."	1999	Aug	16	8	437-56	10737329	0
115	"Clarke, VA"	Cloning and expression of the beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase gene from Streptococcus pneumoniae. Generation of truncated enzymes with modified aglycon specificity	J Biol Chem	"The gene encoding a beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase from Streptococcus pneumoniae has been obtained by screening an expression library for beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity. Clones of different nucleotide sizes each having arylglycoside activity were obtained, and DNA sequencing revealed a gene of 3933 base pairs possessing typical bacterial transcription initiation and termination sequences and terminating in an ochre stop codon. Computer analysis of the translated protein of 1311 amino acids (144,210 Da) identified a tandem repeat within which lies a sequence homologous with six other hexosaminidase gene products from a wide variety of species ranging from bacteria to humans. Also found were an amino-terminal putative secretion signal peptide and a carboxyl-terminal cell sorting/anchorage motif typically found in over 20 other Gram-positive surface proteins. The expression of an almost complete DNA clone in Escherichia coli produced a functional and authentic beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase with aglycon specificity identical to the wild-type enzyme. However, enzymes produced from truncated DNA clones show more restricted aglycon specificity and are unable to hydrolyze terminal beta 1-2GlcNAc residues from N-glycans containing a bisecting N-acetylglucosamine. The availability of these clones allows structural analyses to be made of catalytic and oligosaccharide recognition protein domains that enhance functional activity."	1995	Apr-14	270	15	8805-14	7721787	0
116	"Clay, CC"	Distinct chemokine triggers and in vivo migratory paths of fluorescein dye-labeled T Lymphocytes in acutely simian immunodeficiency virus SIVmac251-infected and uninfected macaques	J Virol	"To define the possible impact of T-lymphocyte trafficking parameters on simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) pathogenesis, we examined migratory profiles of carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester (CFSE)-labeled T lymphocytes in acutely SIVmac251-infected and uninfected macaques within 48 h after autologous transfer. Despite significant upregulation of homeostatic chemokine CCL19/macrophage inflammatory protein 3beta and proinflammatory chemokine CXCL9/monokine induced by gamma interferon in secondary lymphoid tissue in SIV infection, no differences in CFSE+ T-lymphocyte frequencies or cell compartmentalization in lymph nodes were identified between animal groups. By contrast, a higher frequency of CFSE+ T lymphocytes in the small intestine was detected in acute SIV infection. This result correlated with increased numbers of gut CD4 T lymphocytes expressing chemokine receptors CCR9, CCR7, and CXCR3 and high levels of their respective chemokine ligands in the small intestine. The changes in trafficking parameters in SIV-infected macaques occurred concomitantly with acute gut CD4 T-lymphocyte depletion. Here, we present the first in vivo T-lymphocyte trafficking study in SIV infection and a novel approach to delineate T-lymphocyte recruitment into tissues in the nonhuman primate animal model for AIDS. Such studies are likely to provide unique insights into T-lymphocyte sequestration in distinct tissue compartments and possible mechanisms of CD4 T-lymphocyte depletion and immune dysfunction in simian AIDS."	2005	Nov	79	21	13759-68	16227295	0
117	"Collis, WR"	Poliomyelitis in Nigeria	West Afr Med J		1961	Aug	10		217-22	13694779	0
118	"Comelli, EM"	A focused microarray approach to functional glycomics: transcriptional regulation of the glycome	Glycobiology	"Glycosylation is the most common posttranslational modification of proteins, yet genes relevant to the synthesis of glycan structures and function are incompletely represented and poorly annotated on the commercially available arrays. To fill the need for expression analysis of such genes, we employed the Affymetrix technology to develop a focused and highly annotated glycogene-chip representing human and murine glycogenes, including glycosyltransferases, nucleotide sugar transporters, glycosidases, proteoglycans, and glycan-binding proteins. In this report, the array has been used to generate glycogene-expression profiles of nine murine tissues. Global analysis with a hierarchical clustering algorithm reveals that expression profiles in immune tissues (thymus [THY], spleen [SPL], lymph node, and bone marrow [BM]) are more closely related, relative to those of nonimmune tissues (kidney [KID], liver [LIV], brain [BRN], and testes [TES]). Of the biosynthetic enzymes, those responsible for synthesis of the core regions of N- and O-linked oligosaccharides are ubiquitously expressed, whereas glycosyltransferases that elaborate terminal structures are expressed in a highly tissue-specific manner, accounting for tissue and ultimately cell-type-specific glycosylation. Comparison of gene expression profiles with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) profiling of N-linked oligosaccharides suggested that the alpha1-3 fucosyltransferase 9, Fut9, is the enzyme responsible for terminal fucosylation in KID and BRN, a finding validated by analysis of Fut9 knockout mice. Two families of glycan-binding proteins, C-type lectins and Siglecs, are predominately expressed in the immune tissues, consistent with their emerging functions in both innate and acquired immunity. The glycogene chip reported in this study is available to the scientific community through the Consortium for Functional Glycomics (CFG) (http://www.functionalglycomics.org)."	2006	Feb	16	2	117-31	16237199	0
119	"Comunale, MA"	Comparative proteomic analysis of de-N-glycosylated serum from hepatitis B carriers reveals polypeptides that correlate with disease status	Proteomics	"Analysis of the polypeptide profile in tissues, cells, and sera by high-resolution two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis offers promise in the identification of biomarkers that correlate with disease. However, sera contain many polypeptides bearing N-linked glycosylation that can complicate interpretation. Therefore, we tested the possibility that de-N-glycosylation of the polypeptides present in human serum would result in a simplification of serum proteome profiles. Briefly, polypeptides present in human serum were left untreated or subjected to de-N-glycosylation by incubation with PNGase F and resolved by high-resolution 2-D gel electrophoresis. De-N-glycosylation reduced the number of glycoform variants, enhanced the resolution of many polypeptides and allowed other polypeptides to become visible. As an initial test of concept, clinically relevant serum samples from individuals with or without diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma were compared. Several polypeptides, apparent only after de-N-glycosylation, were shown to correlate with disease. Although the results are preliminary and the identities of all the putative biomarkers not yet known, the data suggest that de-N-glycosylation offers a method to enhance the resolution of serum polypeptide profiles and has value in comparative proteomic studies."	2004	Mar	4	3	826-38	14997503	0
120	"Comunale, MA"	Proteomic analysis of serum associated fucosylated glycoproteins in the development of primary hepatocellular carcinoma	J Proteome Res	"Changes in N-linked glycosylation are known to occur during the development of cancer. For example, increased branching of oligosaccharides has been associated with metastasis and has been correlated to tumor progression in human cancers of the breast, colon and melanomas. Increases in core fucosylation have also been associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Chronic infection with the hepatitis B virus is associated with more than 55% of all cases of hepatocellular carcinoma. We show here that increased levels of core fucosylation can be observed via glycan analysis of total serum and are associated with the development of HCC. In a blinded study, the serum glycoproteins derived from people diagnosed with HBV induced liver cancer were found to possess a dramatically higher level of fucosylation. This change occurs on both immunoglobulin molecules and on other serum glycoproteins. Targeted glycoproteomic analysis was used to identify those glycoproteins that are hyperfucosylated in cancer. In total, 19 proteins were found to be hyperfucosylated in cancer. The potential of these proteins as biomarkers of cancer is discussed."	2006	Feb	5	2	308-15	16457596	0
121	"Coombes, GE"	"Synthesis of 3-amino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-hydroxycarbazole, an analogue of 5-hydroxytryptamine"	J Chem Soc [Perkin 1]		1970		2		325-6	5460863	0
122	"Coombs, PJ"	Selective binding of the scavenger receptor C-type lectin to Lewisx trisaccharide and related glycan ligands	J Biol Chem	"The scavenger receptor C-type lectin (SRCL) is an endothelial receptor that is similar in organization to type A scavenger receptors for modified low density lipoproteins but contains a C-type carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD). Fragments of the receptor consisting of the entire extracellular domain and the CRD have been expressed and characterized. The extracellular domain is a trimer held together by collagen-like and coiled-coil domains adjacent to the CRD. The amino acid sequence of the CRD is very similar to the CRD of the asialoglycoprotein receptor and other galactose-specific receptors, but SRCL binds selectively to asialo-orosomucoid rather than generally to asialoglycoproteins. Screening of a glycan array and further quantitative binding studies indicate that this selectivity results from high affinity binding to glycans bearing the Lewis(x) trisaccharide. Thus, SRCL shares with the dendritic cell receptor DC-SIGN the ability to bind the Lewis(x) epitope. However, it does so in a fundamentally different way, making a primary binding interaction with the galactose moiety of the glycan rather than the fucose residue. SRCL shares with the asialoglycoprotein receptor the ability to mediate endocytosis and degradation of glycoprotein ligands. These studies suggest that SRCL might be involved in selective clearance of specific desialylated glycoproteins from circulation and/or interaction of cells bearing Lewis(x)-type structures with the vascular endothelium."	2005	Jun-17	280	24	22993-9	15845541	0
123	"Coombs, PJ"	Two categories of mammalian galactose-binding receptors distinguished by glycan array profiling	Glycobiology	"Profiling of the four known galactose-binding receptors in the C-type lectin family has been undertaken in parallel on a glycan array. The results are generally consistent with previous assays using various different formats, but they provide a direct comparison of the properties of the four receptors, revealing that they fall into two distinct groups. The major subunit of the rat asialoglycoprotein receptor and the rat Kupffer cell receptor show similar broad preference for GalNAc-terminated glycans, while the rat macrophage galactose lectin and the human scavenger receptor C-type lectin bind more restricted sets of glycans. Both of these receptors bind to Lewis(x)-type structures, but the macrophage galactose lectin also interacts strongly with bi-antennary galactose- and GalNAc-terminated glycans. Although the similar glycan-binding profiles for the asialoglycoprotein receptor and the Kupffer cell receptor might suggest that these receptors are functionally redundant, analysis of fibroblasts transfected with full-length Kupffer cell receptor reveals that they fail to endocytose glycosylated ligand."	2006	May-02				16670103	0
124	"Costin, GE"	pH-sensitive liposomes are efficient carriers for endoplasmic reticulum-targeted drugs in mouse melanoma cells	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	"Tyrosinase, the key enzyme of melanin biosynthesis, is inactivated in melanoma cells following the incubation with the imino-sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, an inhibitor of the endoplasmic reticulum N-glycosylation processing. We have previously shown that tyrosinase inhibition requires high NB-DNJ concentrations, suggesting an inefficient cellular uptake of the drug. Here we show that the use of pH-sensitive liposomes composed of dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine and cholesteryl hemisuccinate for the delivery of NB-DNJ reduced the required dose for tyrosinase inhibition by a factor of 1000. The results indicate that these pH-sensitive liposomes are efficient carriers for imino-sugars delivery in the endoplasmic reticulum of mammalian cells."	2002	May-10	293	3	918-23	12051746	0
125	"Cozens, DD"	The effect of a crude marihuana extract on embryonic and foetal development of the rabbit	Adv Biosci		1978	Jul 22-23	22-23		469-77	574470	0
126	"Creaser, CS"	Structural analysis of oligosaccharides by atmospheric pressure matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"An ion source incorporating a fibre optic interface has been constructed for atmospheric pressure matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry. The configuration has been applied to the study of linear and complex oligosaccharides. Multi-stage tandem mass spectrometry (MSn, n = 2-4) experiments carried out in the ion trap enable extended fragmentation pathways to be investigated that yield structural information. Collisional activation of sodiated oligosaccharides, as demonstrated on the model compound maltoheptaose, produces primarily B and Y fragments resulting from cleavage of glycosidic bonds; fragments from cross-ring cleavages are also observed following further stages of tandem mass spectrometry, providing additional linkage information. The analyses of mixtures of complex oligosaccharides are demonstrated for N-linked glycans from chicken egg glycoproteins and a ribonuclease glycan mixture. Mass spectrometric and tandem mass spectrometric data for sugars with molecular weights up to 4000 Da is shown for mixtures of linear dextrans and N-linked glycans. The use of MSn (n = 3, 4) on these complex molecules enabled structural information to be elucidated that confirms data observed in the MS/MS spectra."	2002		16	3	176-84	11803538	0
127	"Crispin, MD"	Monoglucosylated glycans in the secreted human complement component C3: implications for protein biosynthesis and structure	FEBS Lett	The monoglucosylated oligomannose N-linked oligosaccharide (Glc(1)Man(9)GlcNAc(2)) is a retention signal for the calnexin-calreticulin quality control pathway in the endoplasmic reticulum. We report here the presence of such monoglucosylated N-glycans on the human complement serum glycoprotein C3. This finding represents the first report of monoglucosylated glycans on a human serum glycoprotein from non-diseased individuals. The presence of the glucose moiety in 5% of the human C3 glycoprotein suggests that this glycosylation site is sequestered within the protein and is consistent with previous studies identifying a cryptic conglutinin binding site on C3 that becomes exposed upon its conversion to iC3b.	2004	May-21	566	01-Mar	270-4	15147907	538
128	"Crispin, M"	Inhibition of hybrid and complex-type glycosylation reveals the presence of the GlcNAc transferase I-independent fucosylation pathway	Glycobiology	"A mammalian GlcNAc transferase I (GnT I)-independent fucosylation pathway is revealed by the use of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) and negative ion nano-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry of N-linked glycans from natively folded recombinant glycoproteins, expressed in both human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293S or Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO) Lec3.2.8.1 deficient in GnT I activity. The biosynthesis of core fucosylated Man5GlcNAc2 glycans was enhanced in CHO Lec3.2.8.1 cells by the alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, leading to the increase in core fucosylated Man5GlcNAc2 glycans and the biosynthesis of a novel core fucosylated monoglucosylated oligomannose glycan, Glc1Man7GlcNAc2Fuc. Furthermore, no fucosylated Man9GlcNAc2 glycans were detected following inhibition of alpha-mannosidase I with kifunensine. Thus, core fucosylation is prevented by the presence of terminal alpha1-2 mannoses on the 6-antennae but not the 3-antennae of the trimannosyl core. Fucosylated Man5GlcNAc2 glycans were also detected on recombinant glycoprotein from HEK 293T cells following inhibition of Golgi alpha-mannosidase II with swainsonine. The paucity of fucosylated oligomannose glycans in wild-type mammalian cells is suggested to be due to kinetic properties of the pathway rather than the absence of the appropriate catalytic activity. The presence of the GnT I-independent fucosylation pathway is an important consideration when engineering mammalian glycosylation."	2006	May-03				16672288	0
129	"Critser, JK"	"Effect of photoperiod on LH, FSH, prolactin and melatonin patterns in ovariectomized prepubertal heifers"	J Reprod Fertil	"Angus and Angus crossbred prepubertal heifers were ovariectomized and randomly assigned to either increasing light simulating the photoperiod of the vernal equinox to the summer solstice (I) or decreasing light simulating the photoperiod of the autumnal equinox to the winter solstice (D) for 43 degrees N latitude. Three blood samples were taken each week for 14 weeks, the first at 11:00 h and two others 2 days later, 1 h before lights on (dark), 1 h before lights off (light). At the end of 14 weeks 4 heifers from each treatment group were cannulated and samples were taken for 12 h at 15-min intervals, 6 h in the light and 6 h in the dark. All sera were assayed for LH, FSH and prolactin. In addition, the samples taken at 15-min intervals were assayed for melatonin. In samples taken weekly at 11:00 h circulating concentrations of LH and prolactin were higher among animals in Group I, while FSH concentrations were not different between Groups D and I. In samples collected weekly in the light or the dark, LH and prolactin concentrations were higher in Group I animals. However, prolactin concentrations were higher and LH concentrations tended to be higher in samples taken in the dark. FSH concentrations were not different between either D or I or dark and light. In samples taken at 15-min intervals the prolactin baseline was higher and pulse amplitude tended to be higher for Group I animals. Neither LH nor FSH pulse characteristics differed between I and D; however, LH baseline and LH pulse amplitude were higher in the dark. Melatonin pulse amplitude was higher among animals in Group D and higher in serum collected in the dark. These results suggest that photoperiod alters circulating concentrations of LH and prolactin and alters pulsatile release of LH, prolactin and melatonin in the prepubertal heifer."	1987	Sep	81	1	29-39	3118015	0
130	"Critser, JK"	"The effect of photoperiod on diurnal rhythms of serum gonadotrophins, prolactin and melatonin in ovariectomized heifers"	Domest Anim Endocrinol	"Fourteen heifers, ovariectomized prepubertally, were used in two experiments to test the hypotheses that (1) there are diurnal patterns in circulating concentrations of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), prolactin and melatonin and (2) that these diurnal patterns would be altered by changing photoperiod. In experiment 1 (Exp. 1) animals were randomly assigned to either increasing photoperiod (I) (n = 7) or decreasing photoperiod (D) (n = 7) for a period of 8 weeks. In the second experiment (Exp. 2) four heifers from each photoperiod group were assigned to the opposite treatment for another 4 weeks forming four subgroups; continued increasing photoperiod (II) (n = 3), increasing followed by decreasing photoperiod (ID) (n = 4), decreasing followed by increasing photoperiod (DI) (n = 4) and continued decreasing photoperiod (DD) (n = 3). At weeks 4, 8 (Exp. 1) and 12 (Exp. 2) the animals were cannulated and blood samples were taken hourly from 1030 hr to 0830 hr (23 samples). In Exp. 1, animals exposed to either I or D did not differ in circulating concentrations of LH, FSH, prolactin and melatonin. Concentrations of LH and melatonin but not FSH or prolactin were higher in animals during the scotophase than the photophase. In Exp. 2 LH, FSH and prolactin, but not melatonin concentrations were higher in animals exposed to I (II and ID) than D (DI and DD). Animals exposed to I had higher circulating concentrations of FSH and animals exposed to both I and D had higher concentrations of melatonin during the scotophase. Neither LH nor prolactin concentrations differed between scotophase and photophase. The abrupt switch from one photoperiod treatment to the other did not significantly affect LH, FSH or prolactin but did alter the patterns and concentrations of circulating melatonin. Animals that remained in the same photoperiod treatment had similar melatonin concentrations; but animals changed from I to D had higher serum melatonin concentrations than those changed from D to I. These data support the hypothesis that there are diurnal changes in circulating concentrations of melatonin in the prepubertal bovine female, with concentrations higher during scotophase than photophase. In addition, under certain photoperiodic conditions there were diurnal rhythms in gonadotropins. These data also support the hypothesis that changing photoperiod alters the diurnal pattern in circulating melatonin concentrations."	1988	Jan	5	1	23-34	3147163	0
131	"Crocker, PR"	Molecular analysis of sialoside binding to sialoadhesin by NMR and site-directed mutagenesis	Biochem J	"The molecular interactions between sialoadhesin and sialylated ligands have been investigated by using proton NMR. Addition of ligands to the 12 kDa N-terminal immunoglobulin-like domain of sialoadhesin result in resonance shifts in the protein spectrum that have been used to determine the affinities of sialoadhesin for several sialosides. The results indicate that alpha2, 3-sialyl-lactose and alpha2,6-sialyl-lactose bind respectively 2- and 1.5-fold more strongly than does alpha-methyl-N-acetylneuraminic acid (alpha-Me-NeuAc). The resonances corresponding to the methyl protons within the N-acetyl moiety of sialic acid undergo upfield shifting and broadening during titrations, reflecting an interaction of this group with Trp2 in sialoadhesin as observed in co-crystals of the terminal domain with bound ligand. This resonance shift was used to measure the affinities of mutant and wild-type forms of sialoadhesin in which the first three domains are fused to the Fc region of human IgG1. Substitution of Arg97 by alanine completely abrogated measurable interaction with alpha-Me-NeuAc, whereas a conservative substitution with lysine resulted in a 10-fold decrease in affinity. These results provide the first direct measurement of the affinity of sialoadhesin for sialosides and confirm the critical importance of the conserved arginine in interactions between sialosides and members of the siglec family of sialic acid-binding, immunoglobulin-like lectins."	1999	Jul-15	341 ( Pt 2)		355-61	10393093	0
132	"Crockett, JS and Taylor, ME"	Physical properties of safety glass	J Forensic Sci Soc		1969	Dec	9	3	119-22	5383487	0
133	"Cryer, A"	The effect of cycloheximide on adipose-tissue clearing-factor lipase	Biochem J		1973	Apr	132	4	833-6	4721617	0
134	"Cumpstey, I"	Synthesis of fluorescence-labelled disaccharide substrates of glucosidase II	Carbohydr Res	"The fluorescence-labelled disaccharides Glcalpha(1-->3)GlcalphaOR and Glcalpha(1-->3)ManalphaOR, both substrates for the glycoprotein-processing enzyme glucosidase II, were synthesised via the use of a n-pentenyl-derived linker at the anomeric position. This allowed incorporation of a pyrenebutyric acid label, via a sequence of oxidative hydroboration, mesylation, azide displacement, reduction with concomitant global deprotection, and peptide coupling. Selective activation of a fully armed thioglycoside in the presence of n-pentenyl glycosides was readily achieved by the use of methyl triflate as promoter."	2003	Sep-10	338	19	1937-49	14499570	0
135	"Czerwinski, EW"	Crystallographic study of cytochrome b 562 from Escherichia coli	J Mol Biol		1972	Nov-28	71	3	819-21	4567475	0
136	"Daniel, AM"	Metabolism of prolonged shock	Adv Shock Res	"Dogs in shock due to controlled cardiac tamponade for 4 or 12 h were studied to determine which of the metabolic changes characteristic of early shock persisted if the shock state was prolonged. Moderate hyperglycemia and severe lactacidemia were present in the first few hours but the levels returned to near normal values by the end of 12 h. The entry rate of lactic acid into the circulation as well as the rate of glycogenolysis was high in the first 4 h but decreased thereafter even though skeletal muscle glycogen stores were not exhausted. In early but not in late shock glycogen accumulated in the heart. Glucose entry and exit rates were significantly elevated in early shock only. Increased protein utilization and decreased fatty acid mobilization persisted throughout the experimental period. Both in early and late shock the incorporation of labeled free fatty acid into tissue lipids was decreased in most organs. In the diaphragm free fatty acid incorporation only decreased in late shock. In the heart and lung, incorporation was higher than normal in the early stages but was at control levels after 12 h of shock."	1983		9		19-30	6880970	0
137	"Davis, SJ"	Ligand binding by the immunoglobulin superfamily recognition molecule CD2 is glycosylation-independent	J Biol Chem	"The evolutionary success of the immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF) is thought to reflect the ability of IgSF protein domains to form stable structural units. The role of glycosylation in stabilizing these domains is controversial, however. In this study a systematic analysis of the effect of glycosylation on the ligand-binding properties of the cell-cell recognition molecule CD2, which consists of two IgSF domains, was undertaken. A form of human soluble CD2 (hsCD2) with single N-acetylglucosamine residues at each glycosylation site was produced by inhibiting glucosidase I with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin during expression in Chinese hamster ovary cells and digesting the expressed hsCD2 with endoglycosidase H. The ligand and antibody binding properties of this form of hsCD2 were indistinguishable from those of fully glycosylated hsCD2 as determined by surface plasmon resonance analyses. The protein also formed diffraction quality crystals and analysis of the 2.5-A resolution crystal structure indicated that the single N-acetylglucosamine residue present on domain 1 is unlikely to stabilize the ligand binding face of hsCD2. A second, fully deglycosylated form of hsCD2 also bound the ligand and antibodies although this form of the protein tended to aggregate. In contrast to the results of previous studies, the current data indicate that the structural integrity and ligand binding function of human CD2 are glycosylation-independent."	1995	Jan-06	270	1	369-75	7529232	0
138	"Dekowski, SA"	A tyrosine kinase associated with the red cell membrane phosphorylates band 3	J Biol Chem	"Phosphorylation of Band 3, the anion transport protein of human erythrocyte membranes, has been studied by incubating isolated ghosts with [gamma-32P]ATP. One of the phosphate-acceptor sites is tyrosine 8 in the NH2-terminal cytoplasmic domain of the Band 3 protein. Seven out of 11 residues in the sequence surrounding the phosphorylated tyrosine are Asp or Glu. It is concluded that the erythrocyte, like other cells, contains a membrane-associated tyrosine kinase which phosphorylates highly anionic peptide acceptor sites."	1983	Mar-10	258	5	2750-3	6681814	0
139	"Devasahayam, M"	The glycan processing and site occupancy of recombinant Thy-1 is markedly affected by the presence of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor	Glycobiology	"Thy-1 is a cell surface glycoprotein containing three N-linked glycosylation sites and a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. The effect of the anchor on its N-linked glyco-sylation was investigated by comparing the glycosylation of soluble recombinant Thy-1 (sThy-1) with that of recombinant GPI anchored Thy-1, both expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. The sThy-1 was produced in a variety of isoforms including some which lacked carbohydrate on all three sequons whereas the GPI anchored form appeared fully glycosylated like native Thy-1. This was surprising as the attachment of N-linked sugars occurs cotranslationally and it was not expected that the presence of a C-terminal GPI anchor signal sequence would affect sequon occupancy. Furthermore sThy-1 lacking glycosylation could be produced with the inhibitor tunicamycin but in contrast cell surface expression of unglycosylated GPI anchored Thy-1 could not be obtained. The GPI anchored form appeared less processed with almost 4-fold more oligo-mannose oligosaccharides than in sThy-1 and also with less sialylated and core fucosylated biantennary glycans. Possible mechanisms whereby the anchor or the anchor signal sequence, control site occupancy and maturation are discussed."	1999	Dec	9	12	1381-7	10561463	0
140	"Dimitriadis, GJ and Butters, TD"	Liposome-mediated ricin toxicity in ricin-resistant cells	FEBS Lett		1979	Feb-01	98	1	33-6	428539	0
141	"Dodd, RB and Drickamer, K"	Lectin-like proteins in model organisms: implications for evolution of carbohydrate-binding activity	Glycobiology	"Classes of intracellular lectins that recognize core-type structures and mediate intracellular glycoprotein trafficking are present in vertebrates, model invertebrates such as Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster, plants, and yeasts. Lectins that recognize more complex structures at the cell surface, such as C-type lectins and galectins, are also found in invertebrate organisms as well as vertebrates, but the functions of these proteins have evolved differently in different animal lineages."	2001	May	11	5	71R-9R	11425795	0
142	"Doores, KJ"	Direct deprotected glycosyl-asparagine ligation	Chem Commun (Camb)	A simple and efficient synthesis of N-linked glycoamino acids and glycopeptides from deprotected sugars using the Staudinger reaction.	2006	Apr-07		13	1401-3	16550280	0
143	"Dower, SK"	The binding of lanthanides to non-immune rabbit immunoglobulin G and its fragments	Biochem J	"The binding of Gd(III) to rabbit IgG (immunoglobulin G) and the Fab (N-terminal half of heavy and light chain), (Bab')2 (N-terminal half of heavy and light chains joined by inter-chain disulphide bond), Fc (C-terminal half of heavy-chain dimer)and pFc' (C-terminal quarter of heavy-chain dimer) fragments was demonstrated by measurements of the enhancement of the solvent-water proton relaxation rates in the appropriate Gd(III) solutions. At pH 5.5 there are six specific Gd(III)-binding sites on the IgG. These six sites can be divided into two classes; two very 'tight' sites on the Fc fragment (Kd approx. 5 muM) and two weaker sites on each Fab region (Kd approx. 140 muM). Ca(II) does not apparently compete for these metal-binding sites. The metal-binding parameters for IgG can be explained as the sum of the metal binding to the isolated Fab and Fc fragments, suggesting that there is no apparent interaction between the Fab and Fc regions in the IgG molecule. The binding of Gd(III) to Fab and Fc fragments was also monitored by measuring changes in the electron-spin-resonance spectrum of Gd(III) in the presence of each fragment and also by monitoring the effects of Gd(III) on the protein fluorescence at 340 nm (excitation 295 nm). The fluorescence of Tb(III) solutions of 545 nm (excitation 295 nm) is enhanced slightly on addition of Fab or Fc."	1975	Jul	149	1	73-82	242326	0
144	"Dower, SK"	The combining site of the dinitrophenyl-binding immunoglobulin A myeloma protein MOPC 315	Biochem J		1977	Aug-01	165	2	207-23	921744	0
145	"Dower, SK"	"The binding of 2,4,6-trinitrophenyl derivatives to the mouse myeloma immunoglobulin A protein MOPC 315"	Biochem J		1978	Jan-01	169	1	179-88	629744	0
146	"Dower, SK and Dwek, RA"	Phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance probes for the combining site of the myeloma protein M315	Biochemistry		1979	Aug-21	18	17	3668-74	89868	0
147	"Drickamer, K"	Arrangement of the red cell anion transport protein in the red cell membrane: investigation by chemical labeling methods	Ann N Y Acad Sci		1980		341		419-32	6930840	0
148	"Drickamer, K"	Complete amino acid sequence of a membrane receptor for glycoproteins. Sequence of the chicken hepatic lectin	J Biol Chem	"The chicken hepatic lectin is involved in the clearance of glycoproteins from circulation (Kawasaki, T., and Ashwell, G. (1977) J. Biol. Chem. 252, 6536-6543). The complete amino acid sequence of chicken hepatic lectin has been established by analysis of peptides generated by chemical cleavage at methionine or tryptophan residues. Larger BrCN fragments were further digested with trypsin, chymotrypsin, and clostripain. All sequences were determined by automated sequential Edman degradation. Extensive use was made of high performance liquid chromatography in the purification of peptides and identification of phenylthiohydantoin derivatives of amino acids. The complete sequence is: (formula: see text). The stretch of uncharged amino acids from residue 25 to 48 is a possible membrane-interaction region. Carbohydrate is attached to residue 67."	1981	Jun-10	256	11	5827-39	7240175	0
149	"Drickamer, K"	Amino acid sequence of the precursor of rat liver alpha 2 micro-globulin	J Biol Chem	"The amino acid sequence of the signal peptide of the rat liver protein alpha 2 micro-globulin has been determined using a combination of nucleic acid and protein sequencing techniques. The NH2-terminal portion of pre-alpha 2 micro-globulin is: (formula see text) As is the case with most secreted proteins, the majority (13 of 19) of the amino acid residues in this signal are hydrophobic. However, there are no obvious similarities between this signal sequence and that determined for preproalbumin, a protein presumably synthesized and secreted by the same cells in the liver."	1981	Apr-25	256	8	3634-6	6163771	0
150	"Drickamer, K and Mamon, JF"	Phosphorylation of a membrane receptor for glycoproteins. Possible transmembrane orientation of the chicken hepatic lectin	J Biol Chem	"The chicken hepatic lectin, a receptor for partially deglycosylated serum glycoproteins, has been identified as a phosphoprotein. Phosphorylation was detected by incorporation of 32P into the protein in cultured hepatocytes and by two-dimensional gel analysis of protein purified from liver tissue. In addition, forms of the receptor containing one, two, and three sialic acid residues have been detected, with the disialylated form predominating. The site of phosphorylation has been identified as Ser7 in the complete amino acid sequence of the receptor (Drickamer, K. (1981) J. Biol. Chem. 256, 5827-5839). The presence of a protein kinase target site near the NH2-terminal of the receptor, a stretch of 25 uncharged, hydrophobic residues in positions 24 through 48, and a site of glycosylation at position 67 suggests that the chicken hepatic lectin is probably a transmembrane protein, oriented with COOH-terminal outside the cell and NH2-terminal in the cytoplasm."	1982	Dec-25	257	24	15156-61	6294093	0
151	"Drickamer, K"	Primary structure of the rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor. Structural evidence for multiple polypeptide species	J Biol Chem	"When preparations of rat liver receptor for asialoglycoproteins (rat hepatic lectin, (RHL] are examined by dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, multiple polypeptide species are found to be present. The predominant polypeptide has an apparent molecular weight of 41,500 (RHL-1), while two less abundant species appear to be of higher molecular weight (49,000 (RHL-2) and 54,000 (RHL-3]. When the several polypeptides are separated and treated with BrCN, the two minor species are found to share at least one large fragment, while the RHL-1 species gives rise to a completely different set of BrCN peptides. All of the BrCN fragments of the major species and the large common fragment from RHL-2 and RHL-3 have been isolated. These fragments serve as the basis for the complete sequence determination of RHL-1. The complete sequence is 283 residues long, although 20% of the protein as isolated is missing the first 2 residues at the NH2 terminus. The overall arrangement of the polypeptide is similar to the chicken receptor for asialoagalactoglycoproteins; it consists of an NH2-terminal stretch of hydrophilic amino acids, a segment of about 30 uncharged residues, and a COOH-terminal portion which contains three oligosaccharide attachment sites. When the COOH terminus of the rat liver receptor is aligned with the corresponding portions of the chicken liver receptor, the two proteins show 28% identity. Little identity is seen near the NH2 terminus. Sequence homology between residues 50-79 and residues 121-150 of the rat receptor suggests that the additional length of this protein compared with the chicken protein may be due to the presence of a duplicated segment within the rat receptor. The complete sequence of the BrCN fragment common to the two minor species has also been determined; this 101-residue sequence is 53% identical with the COOH-terminal sequence of RHL-1. Since these minor species have a primary structure distinct from RHL-1, there must be at least two genes coding for receptor polypeptides. RHL-2 and RHL-3 may differ in their extent of posttranslational modification."	1984	Jan-25	259	2	770-8	6319386	0
152	"Drickamer, K"	Mannose-binding proteins isolated from rat liver contain carbohydrate-recognition domains linked to collagenous tails. Complete primary structures and homology with pulmonary surfactant apoprotein	J Biol Chem	"Preparations of mannose-binding protein isolated from rat liver contain two distinct but homologous polypeptides. The complete primary structures of both of these polypeptides have been determined by sequencing of peptides derived from the proteins, isolation and sequencing of cDNAs for both proteins, and partial characterization of the gene for one of the proteins. Each polypeptide consists of three regions: (a) an NH2-terminal segment of 18-19 amino acids which is rich in cysteine and appears to be involved in the formation of interchain disulfide bonds which stabilize dimeric and trimeric forms of the protein, (b) a collagen-like domain consisting of 18-20 repeats of the sequence Gly-X-Y and containing 4-hydroxyproline residues in several of the Y positions, and (c) a COOH-terminal carbohydrate-binding domain of 148-150 amino acids. The sequences of the COOH-terminal domains are highly homologous to the sequence of the COOH-terminal carbohydrate-recognition portion of the chicken liver receptor for N-acetylglucosamine-terminated glycoproteins and the rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor. Each protein is preceded by a cleaved, NH2-terminal signal sequence, consistent with the finding that this protein is found in serum as well as in the liver. The entire structure of the mannose-binding proteins is homologous to dog pulmonary surfactant apoprotein."	1986	May-25	261	15	6878-87	3009480	0
153	"Drickamer, K"	Membrane receptors that mediate glycoprotein endocytosis: structure and biosynthesis	Kidney Int Suppl		1987	Dec	23		S167-83	3326962	0
154	"Drickamer, K and McCreary, V"	Exon structure of a mannose-binding protein gene reflects its evolutionary relationship to the asialoglycoprotein receptor and nonfibrillar collagens	J Biol Chem	"Cloned cDNAs encoding mannose-binding proteins isolated from rat liver have been used to isolate one of the genes encoding this group of proteins. This gene, which encodes the minor form of binding protein (designated MBP-A), has been characterized by sequence analysis. The protein-coding portion of the mRNA for the MBP-A is encoded by four exons separated by three introns. The NH2-terminal, collagen-like portion of the protein is encoded by the first two exons. These exons resemble the exons found in the genes for nonfibrillar collagens in that the intron which divides them is inserted between the first two bases of a glycine codon and the exons do not have the 54- or 108-base pair lengths characteristic of fibrillar collagen genes. The carbohydrate-binding portion of MBP-A is encoded by the remaining two exons. This portion of the protein is homologous to the carbohydrate-recognition domain of the hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor, which is encoded by four exons. It appears that the three COOH-terminal exons of the asialoglycoprotein receptor gene have been fused into a single exon in the MBP-A gene. The organization of the MBP-A gene is very similar to the arrangement of the gene encoding the highly homologous pulmonary surfactant apoprotein, although one of the intron positions is shifted by a single amino acid. The 3' end of a mannose-binding protein pseudogene has also been characterized."	1987	Feb-25	262	6	2582-9	3029088	0
155	"Drickamer, K"	Two distinct classes of carbohydrate-recognition domains in animal lectins	J Biol Chem		1988	Jul-15	263	20	9557-60	3290208	0
156	"Drickamer, K"	Demonstration of carbohydrate-recognition activity in diverse proteins which share a common primary structure motif	Biochem Soc Trans		1989	Feb	17	1	13-May	2653902	0
157	"Drickamer, K"	Multiple subfamilies of carbohydrate recognition domains in animal lectins	Ciba Found Symp	"Calcium ion-dependent carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs) are found in a range of proteins including receptors for serum glycoproteins and proteoglycans of the extracellular matrix. These C-type CRDs have homologous amino acid sequences characterized by the presence of certain invariant residues. Analysis of the genes for five of the proteins reveals that in each case the CRD-coding sequence is separated from the rest of the gene by an intron. The genes fall into two groups: those in which the coding sequence for the CRD is interrupted by two introns, and those in which the coding sequence is contained in a single exon. The sequences of domains in each category are consistent with the suggestion that the different gene structures reflect early evolutionary divergence of two subfamilies of C-type CRDs in animal lectins. However, carbohydrate-binding specificity does not directly parallel the evolutionary categorization. Comparison of the primary structures of CRDs in each subfamily which have related binding specificities may help to identify residues involved in ligating carbohydrates. This type of analysis is being extended by the use of bacterial expression systems to investigate in greater detail the binding characteristics of the CRDs."	1989		145		"45-58, discussion 5	2551608	0
158	"Drickamer, K"	Clearing up glycoprotein hormones	Cell		1991	Dec-20	67	6	1029-32	1662115	0
159	"Drickamer, K"	Engineering galactose-binding activity into a C-type mannose-binding protein	Nature	"Calcium-dependent or C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains are homologous protein modules found in a variety of animal lectins. Selective binding of sugars by these domains is essential for glycoprotein clearance, cell-cell adhesion and pathogen neutralization. Although various C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains share sequence identity ranging from 20 to 55%, their sugar-binding characteristics vary widely. The structure of a mannose-binding carbohydrate-recognition domain in complex with a saccharide ligand suggests that two glutamic acid-asparagine pairs are essential determinants of ligand binding by this domain. In C-type lectins that bind galactose with higher affinity than mannose, one of these pairs is replaced by glutamine-aspartic acid. Here we shift the sequence of the mannose-binding protein to correspond to that found in galactose-binding domains in order to test the importance of these residues in sugar-binding selectivity. This simple switch in the position of a single amide group alters the binding activity of the domain so that galactose becomes the preferred ligand."	1992	Nov-12	360	6400	183-6	1279438	0
160	"Drickamer, K"	Recognition of complex carbohydrates by Ca(2+)-dependent animal lectins	Biochem Soc Trans		1993	May	21	2	456-9	8359509	0
161	"Drickamer, K"	A conserved disulphide bond in sialyltransferases	Glycobiology		1993	Feb	3	1	02-Mar	8448381	0
162	"Drickamer, K"	Evolution of Ca(2+)-dependent animal lectins	Prog Nucleic Acid Res Mol Biol		1993		45		207-32	8341801	0
163	"Drickamer, K and Taylor, ME"	Biology of animal lectins	Annu Rev Cell Biol		1993		9		237-64	8280461	0
164	"Drickamer, K"	Three-dimensional view of a selectin cell adhesion molecule	Glycobiology		1994	Jun	4	3	245-8	7524824	0
165	"Drickamer, K and Dwek, RA"	Carbohydrates and glycoconjugates	Curr Opin Struct Biol		1995	Oct	5	5	589-90	8574692	0
166	"Drickamer, K"	Increasing diversity of animal lectin structures	Curr Opin Struct Biol	"The number of animal proteins known to recognize carbohydrates and the number of their biological roles continue to increase. Comparisons of primary structures show that some of the newly described lectins are akin to previously investigated lectins, whereas others represent new structural groups. Progress has been made in understanding structure-function relationships for several lectins in both the old and the new categories."	1995	Oct	5	5	612-6	8574696	0
167	"Drickamer, K"	Multiplicity of lectin-carbohydrate interactions	Nat Struct Biol		1995	Jun	2	6	437-9	7664103	0
168	"Drickamer, K"	Diabetes: Breaking the curse of the AGEs	Nature		1996	Jul-18	382	6588	211-2	8717035	0
169	"Drickamer, K"	Ca(2+)-dependent sugar recognition by animal lectins	Biochem Soc Trans		1996	Feb	24	1	146-50	8674638	0
170	"Drickamer, K"	Making a fitting choice: common aspects of sugar-binding sites in plant and animal lectins	Structure	"Comparing sequences of plant and animal lectins reveals that the ability to bind any one type of sugar has evolved several times independently in diverse protein frameworks. Conversely, families of lectins that share common structural features often contain members that recognize different groups of sugars. In the context of this combination of convergent and divergent evolution, our knowledge of the structures of lectin-sugar complexes provides valuable insights into the principles that underlie specific sugar binding."	1997	Apr-15	5	4	465-8	9115445	0
171	"Drickamer, K and Taylor, ME"	Evolving views of protein glycosylation	Trends Biochem Sci	"The composition, biosynthesis and known roles of oligosaccharides that are attached to glycoproteins suggest that multiple forces have driven the evolution of proteins that create and recognize these structures. The evolution of glycoprotein biosynthesis and recognition mechanisms can be best understood as a sequential development of functions associated with oligosaccharides."	1998	Sep	23	9	321-4	9787635	0
172	"Drickamer, K and Dodd, RB"	C-Type lectin-like domains in Caenorhabditis elegans: predictions from the complete genome sequence	Glycobiology	"Protein modules related to the C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains of animal lectins are found in at least 125 proteins encoded in the Caenorhabditis elegans genome. Within these proteins, 183 C-type lectin-like domains (CTLDs) have been identified. The proteins have been classified based on the overall arrangement of modules within the polypeptides and based on sequence similarity between the CTLDs. The C.elegans proteins generally have different domain organization from known mammalian proteins containing CTLDs. Most of the CTLDs are divergent in sequence from those in mammalian proteins. However, 19 show conservation of most of the amino acid residues that ligate Ca(2+)to form a carbohydrate-binding site in vertebrate C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains. Seven of these domains are particularly similar in sequence to mannose- and N-acetylglucosamine-binding domains in the vicinity of this Ca(2+)site."	1999	Dec	9	12	1357-69	10561461	0
173	"Drickamer, K"	C-type lectin-like domains	Curr Opin Struct Biol	"Carbohydrate-recognition domains of C-type (Ca2+-dependent) animal lectins serve as prototypes for an important family of protein modules. Only some domains in this family bind Ca2+ or sugars. A comparison of recent structures of C-type lectin-like domains reveals diversity in the modular fold, particularly in the region associated with Ca2+ and sugar binding. Some of this diversity reflects the changes that occur during normal physiological functioning of the domains. C-type lectin-like domains associate with each other through several different surfaces to form dimers and trimers, from which ligand-binding sites project in a variety of different orientations."	1999	Oct	9	5	585-90	10508765	0
174	"Drickamer, K and Fadden, AJ"	Genomic analysis of C-type lectins	Biochem Soc Symp	"Many biological effects of complex carbohydrates are mediated by lectins that contain discrete carbohydrate-recognition domains. At least seven structurally distinct families of carbohydrate-recognition domains are found in lectins that are involved in intracellular trafficking, cell adhesion, cell-cell signalling, glycoprotein turnover and innate immunity. Genome-wide analysis of potential carbohydrate-binding domains is now possible. Two classes of intracellular lectins involved in glycoprotein trafficking are present in yeast, model invertebrates and vertebrates, and two other classes are present in vertebrates only. At the cell surface, calcium-dependent (C-type) lectins and galectins are found in model invertebrates and vertebrates, but not in yeast; immunoglobulin superfamily (I-type) lectins are only found in vertebrates. The evolutionary appearance of different classes of sugar-binding protein modules parallels a development towards more complex oligosaccharides that provide increased opportunities for specific recognition phenomena. An overall picture of the lectins present in humans can now be proposed. Based on our knowledge of the structures of several of the C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains, it is possible to suggest ligand-binding activity that may be associated with novel C-type lectin-like domains identified in a systematic screen of the human genome. Further analysis of the sequences of proteins containing these domains can be used as a basis for proposing potential biological functions."	2002			69	59-72	12655774	0
175	"Drickamer, K and Taylor, ME"	Glycan arrays for functional glycomics	Genome Biol	"Interactions between carbohydrates and proteins mediate intracellular traffic, cell adhesion, cell recognition and immune system function. Two recent papers describe how arrays of oligosaccharide and polysaccharide molecules can be used to investigate these interactions more fully."	2002		3	12	REVIEWS1034	12537579	0
176	"Drickamer, K and Taylor, ME"	Identification of lectins from genomic sequence data	Methods Enzymol		2003		362		560-7	12968388	0
177	"Drickamer, K and Taylor, ME"	Targeting diversity	Nat Struct Mol Biol		2005	Oct	12	10	830-1	16205702	0
178	"Durantel, D"	Study of the mechanism of antiviral action of iminosugar derivatives against bovine viral diarrhea virus	J Virol	"The glucose-derived iminosugar derivatives N-butyl- and N-nonyl-deoxynojirimycin (DNJ) have an antiviral effect against a broad spectrum of viruses including Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). For BVDV, this effect has been attributed to the reduction of viral secretion due to an impairment of viral morphogenesis caused by the ability of DNJ-based iminosugar derivatives to inhibit ER alpha-glucosidases (N. Zitzmann, A. S. Mehta, S. Carrouee, T. D. Butters, F. M. Platt, J. McCauley, B. S. Blumberg, R. A. Dwek, and T. M. Block, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96:11878-11882, 1999). Here we present the antiviral features of newly designed DNJ derivatives and report for the first time the antiviral activity of long-alkyl-chain derivatives of deoxygalactonojirimycin (DGJ), a class of iminosugars derived from galactose which does not inhibit endoplasmic reticulum (ER) alpha-glucosidases. We demonstrate the lack of correlation between the ability of long-alkyl-chain DNJ derivatives to inhibit ER alpha-glucosidases and their antiviral effect, ruling out ER alpha-glucosidase inhibition as the sole mechanism responsible. Using short- and long-alkyl-chain DNJ and DGJ derivatives, we investigated the mechanisms of action of these drugs. First, we excluded their potential action at the level of the replication, protein synthesis, and protein processing. Second, we demonstrated that DNJ derivatives cause both a reduction in viral secretion and a reduction in the infectivity of newly released viral particles. Long-alkyl-chain DGJ derivatives exert their antiviral effect solely via the production of viral particles with reduced infectivity. We demonstrate that long-alkyl-chain DNJ and DGJ derivatives induce an increase in the quantity of E2-E2 dimers accumulated within the ER. The subsequent enrichment of these homodimers in secreted virus particles correlates with their reduced infectivity."	2001	Oct	75	19	8987-98	11533162	0
179	"Durantel, D"	"Effects of interferon, ribavirin, and iminosugar derivatives on cells persistently infected with noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus"	Antimicrob Agents Chemother	"Persistent infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major cause of chronic hepatitis in humans. In chronic carriers, the viral infection induces liver damage that predisposes the patient for cirrhosis and can lead to hepatocellular carcinoma. Current chemotherapies are limited to alpha interferon (IFN-alpha) used either alone or in combination with ribavirin (RBV). In addition to its limited efficacy, this treatment is frequently poorly tolerated because of its side effects. The urgently needed development of new drugs is made difficult by the lack of an in vitro or in vivo infectivity model, and no cell line has been found so far to reliably and reproducibly support HCV infection. For this reason, the closely related pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has sometimes been used as a surrogate in vitro infectivity model. In this study we used an MDBK cell line persistently infected with noncytopathic BVDV to assess the antiviral effect of IFN-alpha and RBV, the two drugs currently in clinical use against HCV. The same system was then used to evaluate the potential of two classes of iminosugar derivates to clear noncytopathic BVDV infection from MDBK cells. We show that treatment with long-alkyl-chain deoxynojirimycin derivatives, which are inhibitors of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident alpha-glucosidases, can greatly reduce the amount of secreted enveloped viral RNA. Long-alkyl-chain deoxygalactonojirimycin derivatives, which do not inhibit ER alpha-glucosidases, were less potent but still more effective in this system than IFN-alpha or ribavirin."	2004	Feb	48	2	497-504	14742201	0
180	"Dwek, RA"	The lanthanide cations as probes in biological systems. Proton relaxation enhancement studies for model systems and lysozyme	Eur J Biochem		1971	Jul-29	21	2	204-9	4327451	0
181	"Dwek, RA"	Nuclear magnetic resonance studies of macromolecules with fluorine nuclei as probes	Ciba Found Symp		1971		2		239-79	5212153	0
182	"Dwek, RA"	A spin label probe for the conformational change on conversion of phosphorylase b to phosphorylase a	FEBS Lett		1972	Dec-01	28	2	161-164	11946847	0
183	"Dwek, RA"	"Probes for the conformational transitions of phosphorylase . Effect of ligands studied by proton-relaxation enhancement, and chemical reactivities"	Eur J Biochem		1972	Sep-25	29	3	509-14	4673398	0
184	"Dwek, RA"	Enzyme conformation and control	Symp Soc Exp Biol		1973		27		49-63	4358370	0
185	"Dwek, RA"	Antibody--hapten interactions in solution	Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci	"This paper reports the initial progress in a research programme to identify and obtain the relative orientations, in solution, of the amino acid residues that constitute the combining site of the myeloma protein MOPC 315. This protein has a molecular mass of 150,000, but enzymic digestion yields the Fv fragment of molecular mass 25,000 which still has the combining site intact, as judged by the affinity for dinitrophenyl haptens. Analysis of the e.s.r. spectra of a series of dinitrophenyl spin labelled haptens has allowed the dimensions, rigidity and polarity profile of the combining site to be determined. The combining site is a cleft of overall dimensions 1.1 nm x 0.9 nm x 0.6 nm which has considerable structural rigidity. One of these spin labels has also been used to perturb the n.m.r. spectrum of the Fv and using difference spectroscopy the 270 MHz proton n.m.r. spectrum of the amino acid residues in and around the combining site has been obtained. This spectrum contains only the equivalent of about 30 aromatic and 21 aliphatic protons. Comparison of this difference spectrum with that obtained using a diamagnetic analogue suggests that any conformational changes on hapten binding are mainly localized to the combining site. By the use of (n.m.r.) difference spectroscopy the protons of the three histidine residues in the Fv are observed to titrate with pH and have pKa values of about 8.1, 6.9 and 6.1. The histidine resonances with pKa values 6.9 and 6.1 alter slightly in the presence of haptens and also appear in the spin label difference spectrum, and must therefore be in or near to the combining site. These are assigned to His 102H and His 97L. The existence of lanthanide binding sites on the Fv, necessary for the mapping studies, has been demonstrated by measurements of Gd III water relaxation rates in Fv solutions and also by the changes in the Fv tryptophan fluorescence on addition of Gd III. At pH 5.5 there is one tight binding site for the lanthanides (KD approximately 80 muM) but in the presence of hapten this is weakened 10-20 fold with a reciprocal effect on the hapten binding. Measurements of the Gd III quenching of the e.s.r. spectrum of a spin labelled hapten bound to Fv indicate that the lanthanide site is ca. 1.5 nm from the nitroxide moiety."	1975	Nov-06	272	915	53-74	1818	0
186	"Dwek, RA"	Spin label and lanthanide binding sites on glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase	Biochim Biophys Acta	"The electron spin resonance spectrum of rabbit muscle D-glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase spin-labelled with 4-(2-iodoacetamido)-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidinooxyl has two components. One component is due to a spin label highly immobilized on the enzyme surface and the other to a nitroxyl group able to tumble more rapidly. The spin-labelled enzyme is inactive. Selective modification of the active site cysteine residue (149) and determinations of total sulphydryl content implicate this residue as the site of the immobile spin-label. The mobile spin label is attached to another sulphydryl group. Crystallographic studies on the human muscle enzyme (Watson, H.C., Duee, E. and Mercer, W.D. (1972) Nat. New Biol., 240, 130) have located a binding site for samarium ion in the active centre. Addition of the paramagnetic gadolinium ion to spin-labelled enzyme reduces the intensity of both the spin label signals (by 72% for the mobile and by 11% for the immobile component). This indicates that the metal ion site (Kd equals 0.7 mM) is close to both types of spin label. Measurements of the effect of gadolinium-protein binding on the relaxation rate of solvent water protons enable the enzyme-bound spin label-metal ion distances to be tentatively estimated as 15 angstrom."	1975	Jan-23	377	1	26-33	164224	0
187	"Dwek, RA"	Interactions of the lanthanide- and hapten-binding sites in the Fv fragment from the myeloma protein MOPC 315	Biochem J	"1. The interactions of lanthanide metals and dinitrophenyl spin-label haptens with the Fv fragment of the mouse myeloma protein MOPC 315 were investigated by the techniques of fluorescence, e.s.r. (electron spin resonance) and high-resolution n.m.r. (nuclear magnetic resonance). 2. The protein fluorescence of Fv fragment at 340nm is quenched by the haptens (fluorescence enhancement, epsilon=0.15) and enhanced by Gd(III) (epsilon=1.14) and other lanthanides. The binding of the haptens studied here is insensitive to pH in the range 5.5-7.0 (dissociation constant KH=0.3-1.0 muM) and shows 1:1 stoicheiometry. The binding of Gd(III) also shows 1:1 stoicheiometry, but is pH-dependent; the binding constant (KM) varies from 10 muM at pH7.0 to 700 muM at pH4.8. La(III) binding is less sensitive to pH. The pH-dependences of the metal-binding constants imply that a group in the protein with pKa greater than or equal to 6.2 is involved in the binding, and probably also other groups with lower pKa values. 3. The apparent binding of the haptens is weakened about 20-fold by Gd(III), and vice versa. An equilibrium scheme involving a ternary complex with an interaction between the two binding sites is derived in Appendix I to explain the experimental results at two pH values. 4. Time-dependent fluorescence changes are observed in the presence of Gd(III) at pH5.5. A two-state kinetic scheme involving a 'slow' conformational change in the Fv fragment is derived in Appendix II to explain this time-dependence. This scheme is consistent with the antagonistic equilibrium behaviour. 5. The e.s.r. changes in the spin-label haptens on binding to Fv fragment and on the subsequent addition of lanthanides are consistent with the binding scheme for haptens and lanthanides proposed from the fluorescence studies. A difference between the limiting quenching of the e.s.r. signal from the bound haptens in the presence of saturating concentrations of Gd(III) and La(III) is attributed to dipolar interactions between bound Gd(III) and the nitroxide moiety of the bound hapten. The residual quenching with Gd(III) allows an estimate of 1.2nm to be made for the distance between the two paramagnetic centres. 6. The 270 MHz proton difference spectrum of the Fv fragment resulting from the addition of La(III) suggests that any metal-induced conformational changes are small and involve relatively few amino acid residues on the Fv fragment..."	1976	Apr-01	155	1	37-53	7239	0
188	"Dwek, RA"	Structure of an antibody combining site by magnetic resonance	Nature	"The structure of the combining site of the DNP binding IgA mouse myeloma protein MOPC 315 has been determined by a combination of high resolution nuclear magnetic resonance, electron spin resonance, model building and chemical modifications. This approach yields that general dimensions of the site, its polarity and asymmetry features, the assignment of the DNP-contact residues and their three-dimensional coordinates."	1977	Mar-03	266	5597	31-Jul	190543	0
189	"Dwek, RA"	Structural studies in solution on the combining site of the myeloma protein MOPC 315	Contemp Top Mol Immunol		1977		6		Jan-52	232031	0
190	"Dwek, RA"	Structure-function relationships in immunoglobulins	Biochem Soc Symp		1984		49		123-36	6400488	0
191	"Dwek, RA"	Glycosylation of CD4 and Thy-1	Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci	"The site-specific glycosylation of soluble recombinant variants of human and rat CD4 (sCD4) expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells has been characterized. The presence of identical oligosaccharides at the conserved glycosylation site in domain 3 of rat and human sCD4 and the greater abundance of oligomannose and hybrid type glycans at the non-conserved glycosylation site of rat sCD4 clearly indicate that the protein structure influences oligosaccharide processing. Comparisons of rat sCD4 glycopeptides with mutant molecules with only single glycosylation sites and with a truncated form containing only the two NH2-terminal domains, indicate that independent processing occurs at each glycosylation site and that domain interactions can also affect oligosaccharide processing. These and other analyses of sCD2 expressed in CHO cells and Thy-1 purified from various tissues suggest that the diversity of oligosaccharide structures on a protein is regulated by the location of the glycosylation sites and the nature of the target protein, cell and tissue. The functional significance of this control remains to be determined."	1993	Oct-29	342	1299	43-50	7904345	0
192	"Dwek, RA"	Analysis of glycoprotein-associated oligosaccharides	Annu Rev Biochem		1993		62		65-100	8352598	0
193	"Dwek, RA"	Glycobiology: 'the function of sugar in the IgG molecule'	J Anat	"Immunoglobulin G (IgG) is glycosylated in both the Fc and the Fab regions of the protein with a heterogeneous ensemble of structures (glycoforms) that is both highly reproducible (i.e. nonrandom) and site specific. In normal IgG, the 2 highly conserved oligosaccharides of the Fc region are found buried between the CH2 domains, forming specific protein-saccharide interactions with the Fc protein surface. One of the functions attributed to the Fc oligosaccharides of normal IgG is to maintain the conformational arrangements of the Fc domains as well as the hinge regions. These structural features are necessary for Fc effector functions such as Clq and monocyte binding. A hallmark of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients is a dramatic increase in the presence of serum IgG containing Fc oligosaccharides lacking an outer arm galactose residue (termed 'G0' glycoforms). The increased level of G0 has been shown to be directly related to the pathogenesis of RA. Nuclear magnetic resonance relaxation studies of the Fc region from normal and RA IgG, as well as examination of x-ray structures, show that the G0 oligosaccharides have an increased mobility resulting from the loss of binding between the G0 oligosaccharide and the Fc protein surface. From these observations it follows that regions of the protein surface that are normally covered by the oligosaccharide are revealed. The newly accessible protein surface could have lectin-like activity and also be inherently antigenic. In addition, the more mobile G0 oligosaccharide can be recognised by mannose binding protein. As the mannose binding protein can activate complement, and the Fc oligosaccharide would not normally be accessible to protein recognition, this finding might suggest a specific role for the G0 glycoform in inflammation when the appropriate IgG glycoforms are clustered."	1995	Oct	187 ( Pt 2)		279-92	7591992	0
194	"Dwek, RA"	Glycobiology: more functions for oligosaccharides	Science		1995	Sep-01	269	5228	1234-5	7652569	0
195	"Dwek, RA"	"Glycobiology: ""towards understanding the function of sugars"""	Biochem Soc Trans		1995	Feb	23	1	Jan-25	7758655	0
196	"Dwek, RA"	Glycobiology: Toward Understanding the Function of Sugars	Chem Rev		1996	Mar-28	96	2	683-720	11848770	0
197	"Dwek, MV"	Oligosaccharide release from frozen and paraffin-wax-embedded archival tissues	Anal Biochem	"Altered glycosylation is a feature of many solid tissue diseases such as ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, cancer, and connective tissue disorders. Conventionally, oligosaccharide changes have been studied by immunohistochemical techniques. We have adapted existing techniques, developed for purified protein preparations, to allow the release of intact oligosaccharides from archival tissues, so that the oligosaccharides may be structurally characterized. In our study, sections cut from paraffin-wax blocks were dewaxed and oligosaccharides were released using hydrazine and labeled with 2-aminobenzamide. Sialylated oligosaccharides were compared by passing through a GlycoSep C divinylbenzene anion exchange resin column and neutral oligosaccharides were compared by passing through a BioGel P4 column. The oligosaccharide profiles obtained from the same fresh frozen versus archival paraffin-wax-embedded, normal liver, and tumor tissues showed remarkable similarity in terms of their sialylated and neutral structures. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry has shown that the oligosaccharides are not affected by fixation in formalin and storage in paraffin wax. The results indicate that while the proteins themselves may be denatured, oligosaccharides are not adversely affected by fixation in formalin and storage in paraffin wax. By applying these methods, oligosaccharides from archival tissues, where the natural history of the disease has been followed, may now be liberated and structurally characterized."	1996	Nov-01	242	1	Aug-14	8923957	0
198	"Dwek, RA"	Biological importance of glycosylation	Dev Biol Stand	"Glycosylation is the primary cause of microheterogeneity in proteins (glycoforms). These reflect complexity at both molecular and cellular levels. Protein sugar prints are conserved and not random under normal physiological conditions. There are many potential functions of glycosylation. For instance, physical properties include: folding, trafficking, packing, stabilisation, protease protection, quaternary structure and organization of water structure. Properties relating to recognition and biological triggering are characterized by: weak interactions, multiple presentation and precise geometry. Many of the properties may only operate in a specific biological context. Changes in sugar prints may both reflect and results in physiological changes, e.g. cancer and rheumatoid arthritis. It is necessary, in many systems, to evaluate glycosylation. This requires accurate monitoring of sugar prints of using automated and predictive technology. Glycosylation often affords a sensitive means of monitoring pharmaceutical products for Quality Control."	1998		96		43-7	9890515	0
199	"Dwek, RA"	Targeting glycosylation as a therapeutic approach	Nat Rev Drug Discov	"Increased understanding of the role of protein- and lipid-linked carbohydrates in a wide range of biological processes has led to interest in drugs that target the enzymes involved in glycosylation. But given the importance of carbohydrates in fundamental cellular processes such as protein folding, therapeutic strategies that modulate, rather than ablate, the activity of enzymes involved in glycosylation are likely to be a necessity. Two such approaches that use imino sugars to affect glycosylation enzymes now show considerable promise in the treatment of viral infections, such as hepatitis B, and glucosphingolipid storage disorders, such as Gaucher disease."	2002	Jan	1	1	65-75	12119611	0
200	"East, L"	"Characterization of sugar binding by the mannose receptor family member, Endo180"	J Biol Chem	"Members of the mannose receptor family, the mannose receptor, the phospholipase A(2) receptor, DEC-205, and Endo180, contain multiple C-type lectin-like domains (CTLDs) within a single polypeptide. In addition, at their N termini, all four family members contain a cysteine-rich domain similar to the R-type carbohydrate recognition domains of ricin. However, despite the common presence of multiple lectin-like domains, these four endocytic receptors have divergent ligand binding activities, and it is clear that the majority of these domains do not bind sugars. Here the functions of the lectin-like domains of the most recently discovered family member, Endo180, have been investigated. Endo180 is shown to bind in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner to mannose, fucose, and N-acetylglucosamine but not to galactose. This activity is mediated by one of the eight CTLDs, CTLD2. Competition assays indicate that the monosaccharide binding specificity of Endo180 CTLD2 is similar to that of mannose receptor CTLD4. However, additional experiments indicate that, unlike the cysteine-rich domain of the mannose receptor, the cysteine-rich domain of Endo180 does not bind sulfated sugars. Thus, although Endo180 and the mannose receptor are now both known to be mannose binding lectins, each receptor is likely to have a distinct set of glycoprotein ligands in vivo."	2002	Dec-27	277	52	50469-75	12399458	0
201	"Easterbrook-Smith, SB"	Structural basis of recognition in the immune response	Biochem Soc Trans		1978		6	6	1126-31	744370	0
202	"Easterbrook-Smith, SB and Dwek, RA"	The use of ANS fluorescence as a probe for immunoglobulin flexibility	FEBS Lett		1980	Dec-01	121	2	253-6	7461129	0
203	"Edge, CJ"	500-picosecond molecular dynamics in water of the Man alpha 1----2Man alpha glycosidic linkage present in Asn-linked oligomannose-type structures on glycoproteins	Biochemistry	"Molecular dynamics simulations of the Man alpha 1----2Man alpha glycosidic linkage found in the N-linked glycans of glycoproteins were performed in vacuo and in the presence of water. In the latter case significant dampening of the molecular fluctuations was found when compared to the in vacuo simulation. A 500-ps dynamics simulation in water showed only occasional short-lived deviations from the minimum-energy conformation, more consistent with carbohydrate ""breathing"" than flexibility. These studies add further evidence that oligosaccharides can maintain ""fixed"" geometries with relatively long lifetimes and are in agreement with experimental NMR-derived parameters for the same linkage in oligomannose structures."	1990	Feb-27	29	8	1971-4	2328229	0
204	"Edge, CJ"	Fast sequencing of oligosaccharides: the reagent-array analysis method	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"A method of oligosaccharide analysis involving controlled fragmentation resulting from enzymatic digestion is presented. The principle involves generating a set of fragments from the original oligosaccharides, characterizing them in terms of their hydrodynamic volumes, determining their molar proportions, and identifying the oligosaccharides by comparison with a computer-generated data base. Experimentally, this technique involves incubation of aliquots of a sample with a set of defined mixtures of exoglycosidases followed by pooling of the products and a single analysis on the product pool. This method has several practical advantages over current techniques, including speed and the ability to use smaller amounts of starting material. The detection of the intensity-versus-hydrodynamic volume profile is limited only by the specific activity of the labeling method. The ability to perform the enzyme digestions is limited by the individual Km values of the enzymes."	1992	Jul-15	89	14	6338-42	1631129	0
205	"Edge, CJ"	The conformational effects of N-linked glycosylation	Biochem Soc Trans		1993	May	21	2	452-5	8359508	0
206	"Edmonds, DT"	Mapping space by NMR using susceptibility changes at phase boundaries	J Inorg Biochem	A technique for differentiating high-resolution NMR signals from different regions of small objects is outlined and some initial results on model systems are given. This method uses inorganic paramagnetic or diamagnetic ions to create magnetic field gradients at phase boundaries.	1986	Oct-Nov	28	02-Mar	381-91	3806098	0
207	"Elstein, D"	"Sustained therapeutic effects of oral miglustat (Zavesca, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, OGT 918) in type I Gaucher disease"	J Inherit Metab Dis	"It has been shown that treatment with miglustat (Zavesca, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, OGT 918) improves key clinical features of type I Gaucher disease after 1 year of treatment. This study reports longer-term efficacy and safety data. Patients who had completed 12 months of treatment with open-label miglustat (100-300 mg three times daily) were enrolled to continue with therapy in an extension study. Data are presented up to month 36. Liver and spleen volumes measured by CT or MRI were scheduled every 6 months. Biochemical and haematological parameters, including chitotriosidase activity (a sensitive marker of Gaucher disease activity) were monitored every 3 months. Safety data were also collected every 3 months. Eighteen of 22 eligible patients at four centres entered the extension phase and 14 of these completed 36 months of treatment with miglustat. After 36 months, there were statistically significant improvements in all major efficacy endpoints. Liver and spleen organ volumes were reduced by 18% and 30%, respectively. In patients whose haemoglobin value had been below 11.5 g/dl at baseline, mean haemoglobin increased progressively from baseline by 0.55 g/dl at month 12 (NS), 1.28 g/dl at month 24 (p =0.007), and 1.30 g/dl at month 36 (p =0.013). The mean platelet count at month 36 increased from baseline by 22 x 10(9)/L. No new cases of peripheral neuropathy occurred since previously reported. Diarrhoea and weight loss, which were frequently reported during the initial 12-month study, decreased in magnitude and prevalence during the second and third years. Patients treated with miglustat for 3 years show significant improvements in organ volumes and haematological parameters. In conclusion, miglustat was increasingly effective over time and showed acceptable tolerability in patients who continued with treatment for 3 years."	2004		27	6	757-66	15505381	0
208	"Emanuel, EJ"	Formation of complement subcomponent C1q-immunoglobulin G complex. Thermodynamic and chemical-modification studies	Biochem J	"The interaction between the complement subcomponent C1q and immunoglobulin G was investigated under a variety of experimental conditions. Formation of the subcomponent C1q--immunoglobulin G complex was shown to be an equilibrium process. Thermodynamic studies of the effect of varying the ionic strength indicate that over the salt range 0.15--0.225 M-NaCl the binding of subcomponent C1q to immunoglobulin aggregates releases 9--12 salt ions (Na+ and/or Cl-), illustrating the importance of ionic interactions for the formation of the complex. The effects of small peptide and organic ion inhibitors support this conclusion. Chemical modifications of carboxylate residues on immunoglobulin G by glycine ethyl ester/water-soluble carbodi-imide (up to 12 residues modified per whole molecule of immunoglobulin G) and of lysine residues by acetic anhydride (3 residues per whole molecule of immunoglobulin G) or methyl acetimidate (19 residues per whole molecule of immunoglobulin G) lowered the binding affinity of immunoglobulin for subcomponent C1q. Modification of arginine residues by cyclohexane-1,2-dione-1,2 (14 residues per whole molecule of immunoglobulin G) and of tryptophan by hydroxynitrobenzyl bromide (2 residues per whole molecule of immunoglobulin G), however, had little or no effect. The results are consistent with the proposal that the subcomponent-C1q-binding site on immunoglobulin G is to be found on the last two beta-strands of the Cv2 domain [Burton, Boyd, Brampton, Easterbrook-Smith, Emanuel, Novotny, Rademacher, van Schravendijk, Sternberg & Dwek (1980) Nature (London) 288, 338--344]."	1982	Aug-01	205	2	361-72	6982707	0
209	"Emanuel, EJ"	Chemical verification of the C1q receptor site on IgG	FEBS Lett		1982	Jan-25	137	2	298-302	6977461	0
210	"Evans, SE"	D-dimer assay for deep vein thrombosis. its role with colour Doppler sonography	Clin Radiol		2001	Aug	56	8	689	11467878	0
211	"Fadden, AJ"	Molecular characterization of the rat Kupffer cell glycoprotein receptor	Glycobiology	"The Kupffer cell receptor for glycoproteins has been reported to have a role in clearance of galactose- and fucose-terminated glycoproteins from circulation. Although the gene and a cDNA encoding the receptor have been described, there has been little study of the receptor protein. To address some questions about possible ligands and functions for this receptor, fragments representing portions of the extracellular domain have been expressed and characterized. The extracellular domain consists of a trimer stabilized by an extended coiled-coil of alpha-helices. The receptor displays monosaccharide-binding characteristics similar to the hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor, but with somewhat less selectivity. The two best monosaccharide ligands are GalNAc and galactose. alpha-Methyl fucoside is a particularly poor ligand. Analysis of Kupffer cell receptor binding to glycoproteins and oligosaccharides released from them reveals highest affinity for desialylated, complex N-linked glycans. The best glycoprotein ligands contain multiple highly branched oligosaccharides. A human ortholog of the rat receptor gene does not encode a full-length protein and is not expressed in liver. These characteristics suggest that the receptor may have functions parallel to those of the hepatocyte asialoglycoprotein receptor in some (but not all) mammalian species."	2003	Jul	13	7	529-37	12672702	0
212	"Farkas, DH"	Sequences of herpes simplex virus type 1 that inhibit formation of stable TK+ transformants	J Virol	"We have identified two regions of the herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) genome that inhibit DNA-mediated transformation of thymidine kinase-less L (Ltk-) cells by the cloned HSV-1 tk gene. When plasmids containing the EcoRI fragments EK or JK were mixed at 30 fmol/ml with the tk gene and transfected into Ltk- cells, the frequency of transformation was inhibited 80 to more than 90% relative to the control. Of the remaining 10 EcoRI fragments of the HSV-1 genome, 8 were inactive and 2 were weakly active. A 6.1-kilobase PstI subclone between 0.743 and 0.782 map units was isolated from pEK. This clone, pEK-P3P4, exhibited antitransformation activity toward HSV-1 tk and also the bacterial genes gpt and neo. pEK-P3P4 contains the alpha 27 gene, and restriction endonuclease inactivation and subcloning studies established that alpha 27 alone did not inhibit transformation. However, alpha 27 plus sequences both upstream and downstream of alpha 27 did inhibit transformation. In addition, alpha 0 or alpha 4 could substitute for alpha 27 in effecting antitransformation with these sequences. Therefore, an alpha gene and two additional loci in pEK-P3P4 are required for antitransformation. A second antitransforming locus in the reiterated sequences common to EK and JK and distinct from those in pEK-P3P4 was also identified but not characterized in detail. How antitransformation may be an expression of regulation of viral and host cell gene expression is discussed."	1987	Oct	61	10	2989-96	3041018	0
213	"Feinberg, H"	Mechanism of pH-dependent N-acetylgalactosamine binding by a functional mimic of the hepatocyte asialoglycoprotein receptor	J Biol Chem	"Efficient release of ligands from the Ca(2+)-dependent carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) of the hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor at endosomal pH requires a small set of conserved amino acids that includes a critical histidine residue. When these residues are incorporated at corresponding positions in an homologous galactose-binding derivative of serum mannose-binding protein, the pH dependence of ligand binding becomes more like that of the receptor. The modified CRD displays 40-fold preferential binding to N-acetylgalactosamine compared with galactose, making it a good functional mimic of the asialoglycoprotein receptor. In the crystal structure of the modified CRD bound to N-acetylgalactosamine, the histidine (His(202)) contacts the 2-acetamido methyl group and also participates in a network of interactions involving Asp(212), Arg(216), and Tyr(218) that positions a water molecule in a hydrogen bond with the sugar amide group. These interactions appear to produce the preference for N-acetylgalactosamine over galactose and are also likely to influence the pK(a) of His(202). Protonation of His(202) would disrupt its interaction with an asparagine that serves as a ligand for Ca(2+) and sugar. The structure of the modified CRD without sugar displays several different conformations that may represent structures of intermediates in the release of Ca(2+) and sugar ligands caused by protonation of His(202)."	2000	Nov-10	275	45	35176-84	10931846	0
214	"Feinberg, H"	Structure of a C-type carbohydrate recognition domain from the macrophage mannose receptor	J Biol Chem	"The mannose receptor of macrophages and liver endothelium mediates clearance of pathogenic organisms and potentially harmful glycoconjugates. The extracellular portion of the receptor includes eight C-type carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs), of which one, CRD-4, shows detectable binding to monosaccharide ligands. We have determined the crystal structure of CRD-4. Although the basic C-type lectin fold is preserved, a loop extends away from the core of the domain to form a domain-swapped dimer in the crystal. Of the two Ca(2+) sites, only the principal site known to mediate carbohydrate binding in other C-type lectins is occupied. This site is altered in a way that makes sugar binding impossible in the mode observed in other C-type lectins. The structure is likely to represent an endosomal form of the domain formed when Ca(2+) is lost from the auxiliary calcium site. The structure suggests a mechanism for endosomal ligand release in which the auxiliary calcium site serves as a pH sensor. Acid pH-induced removal of this Ca(2+) results in conformational rearrangements of the receptor, rendering it unable to bind carbohydrate ligands."	2000	Jul-14	275	28	21539-48	10779515	0
215	"Feinberg, H"	Structural basis for selective recognition of oligosaccharides by DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR	Science	"Dendritic cell specific intracellular adhesion molecule-3 (ICAM-3) grabbing nonintegrin (DC-SIGN), a C-type lectin present on the surface of dendritic cells, mediates the initial interaction of dendritic cells with T cells by binding to ICAM-3. DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR, a related receptor found on the endothelium of liver sinusoids, placental capillaries, and lymph nodes, bind to oligosaccharides that are present on the envelope of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), an interaction that strongly promotes viral infection of T cells. Crystal structures of carbohydrate-recognition domains of DC-SIGN and of DC-SIGNR bound to oligosaccharide, in combination with binding studies, reveal that these receptors selectively recognize endogenous high-mannose oligosaccharides and may represent a new avenue for developing HIV prophylactics."	2001	Dec-07	294	5549	2163-6	11739956	0
216	"Feinberg, H"	Crystal structure of the CUB1-EGF-CUB2 region of mannose-binding protein associated serine protease-2	Embo J	"Serum mannose-binding proteins (MBPs) are C-type lectins that recognize cell surface carbohydrate structures on pathogens, and trigger killing of these targets by activating the complement pathway. MBPs circulate as a complex with MBP-associated serine proteases (MASPs), which become activated upon engagement of a target cell surface. The minimal functional unit for complement activation is a MASP homodimer bound to two MBP trimeric subunits. MASPs have a modular structure consisting of an N-terminal CUB domain, a Ca(2+)-binding EGF-like domain, a second CUB domain, two complement control protein modules and a C-terminal serine protease domain. The CUB1-EGF-CUB2 region mediates homodimerization and binding to MBP. The crystal structure of the MASP-2 CUB1-EGF-CUB2 dimer reveals an elongated structure with a prominent concave surface that is proposed to be the MBP-binding site. A model of the full six-domain structure and its interaction with MBPs suggests mechanisms by which binding to a target cell transmits conformational changes from MBP to MASP that allow activation of its protease activity."	2003	May-15	22	10	2348-59	12743029	500
217	"Feinberg, H"	Extended neck regions stabilize tetramers of the receptors DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR	J Biol Chem	"The human cell surface receptors DC-SIGN (dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-grabbing nonintegrin) and DC-SIGNR (DC-SIGN-related) bind to oligosaccharide ligands found on human tissues as well as on pathogens including viruses, bacteria, and parasites. The extracellular portion of each receptor contains a membrane-distal carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) and forms tetramers stabilized by an extended neck region consisting of 23 amino acid repeats. Cross-linking analysis of full-length receptors expressed in fibroblasts confirms the tetrameric state of the intact receptors. Hydrodynamic studies on truncated receptors demonstrate that the portion of the neck of each protein adjacent to the CRD is sufficient to mediate the formation of dimers, whereas regions near the N terminus are needed to stabilize the tetramers. Some of the intervening repeats are missing from polymorphic forms of DC-SIGNR. Two different crystal forms of truncated DC-SIGNR comprising two neck repeats and the CRD reveal that the CRDs are flexibly linked to the neck, which contains alpha-helical segments interspersed with non-helical regions. Differential scanning calorimetry measurements indicate that the neck and CRDs are independently folded domains. Based on the crystal structures and hydrodynamic data, models for the full extracellular domains of the receptors have been generated. The observed flexibility of the CRDs in the tetramer, combined with previous data on the specificity of these receptors, suggests an important role for oligomerization in the recognition of endogenous glycans, in particular those present on the surfaces of enveloped viruses recognized by these proteins."	2005	Jan-14	280	2	1327-35	15509576	0
218	"Fell, DA"	Proton-relaxation-enhancement studies on the binding to yeast pyruvate kinase of a substrate and effectors	Eur J Biochem		1972	Aug-18	29	1	128-33	4343297	0
219	"Fell, DA"	The preparation and properties of pyruvate kinase from yeast	Biochem J		1974	Jun	139	3	665-75	4369339	0
220	"Ferguson, MA"	The glycosylphosphatidylinositol membrane anchor of Trypanosoma brucei variant surface glycoprotein	Biochem Soc Trans		1988	Jun	16	3	265-8	3181613	0
221	"Ferguson, MA"	Glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol moiety that anchors Trypanosoma brucei variant surface glycoprotein to the membrane	Science	"Two forms of protein-membrane anchor have been described for the externally disposed glycoproteins of eukaryotic plasma membranes; namely, the hydrophobic transmembrane polypeptide and the complex glycosylphosphatidylinositol (G-PI) moiety. The chemical structures of the major species of G-PI anchors found on a single variant surface glycoprotein (VSG) of the parasitic protozoan Trypanosoma brucei were determined by a combination of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, chemical modification, and exoglycosidase digestions. The G-PI anchor was found to be heterogeneous with respect to monosaccharide sequence, and several novel glycosidic linkages were present. The results are pertinent to the mechanism of the biosynthesis of G-PI anchors."	1988	Feb-12	239	4841 Pt 1	753-9	3340856	0
222	"Field, MC"	O-linked oligosaccharides from human serum immunoglobulin A1	Biochem Soc Trans		1989	Dec	17	6	1034-5	2628063	0
223	"Field, MC"	Detection of multisulphated N-linked glycans in the L2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope expressing neural adhesion molecule P0	J Neurochem	"P0, the most abundant glycoprotein of PNS myelin, is a homophilic and heterophilic adhesion molecule. P0 is known to contain a glycoform population that expresses the L2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope found on other neural adhesion molecules, and to be functionally implicated centrally in neural cell adhesion and neurite outgrowth. This carbohydrate epitope has been characterized previously from glycolipid structures and contains a sulphated glucuronic acid residue. However, the L2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope has not been characterized in glycoproteins. Because P0 possesses only one glycosylation sequon, the number of P0 glycoforms is equal to the heterogeneity of the glycan species. Here we report that the carbohydrate analysis of L2/HNK-1-reactive P0 showed the presence of anionic structures containing sialic acid and sulphate in various combinations. At least one sulphate residue was present in 80% of the monosaccharide sequences, and 20% contained three sulphates. High-resolution P4 gel chromatography of the desialylated and desulphated oligosaccharides showed substantial heterogeneity of monosaccharide sequences. Sequential exoglycosidase digestions indicated that the majority of the structures were of the hybrid class, although the sulphated structures were found to be endoglycosidase H-resistant."	1992	Mar	58	3	993-1000	1371154	0
224	"Field, MC"	Structural analysis of the N-glycans from human immunoglobulin A1: comparison of normal human serum immunoglobulin A1 with that isolated from patients with rheumatoid arthritis	Biochem J	"The primary structures of the N-linked oligosaccharides from normal human serum IgA1 were determined by a combination of sequential exoglycosidase digestion, Bio-Gel P-4 chromatography, anion-exchange chromatography and one-dimensional n.m.r. spectroscopy. Three major N-linked disialylated biantennary-complex-type structures were found (55%). The remaining N-linked oligosaccharides consisted of at least nine further structures, some of which (7%) were of the triantennary type and included disialylated triantennary oligosaccharides with outer-arm fucose substitution [Fuc alpha 1-3(4)]. Compared with IgG, the N-glycan structures on IgA are more completely processed: the outer arms have a higher proportion of galactose and sialic acid, and only trace levels of incompletely galactosylated oligosaccharides, commonly found on IgG, were detected. Analysis of the sialylated O-glycans revealed that 64% were [NeuAc2 alpha 3(6)]2Gal beta 3GalNAc and 9% were [NeuAc2 alpha 3(6)]-Gal beta 4GlcNAc beta 6[NeuAc2 alpha 3(6)Gal beta 3]GalNAc, and 27% were monosialylated. The N-linked glycosylation of both serum IgA1 and IgG isolated from a group of six normal individuals was compared with that from ten patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In contrast with the hypogalactosylation found in IgG from diseased sera, there was no evidence of an equivalent decrease in the galactosylation of the IgA1 oligosaccharides. In addition, the N-glycosylation of IgA1 was remarkably consistent within the group of normal individuals. These data suggest that incomplete galactosylation of N-linked glycans and its augmentation in RA does not extend to IgA1 and that the RA-associated galactosyltransferase deficiency may be restricted to cells producing gamma-chain."	1994	Apr-01	299 ( Pt 1)		261-75	8166649	0
225	"Fischer, PB"	The alpha-glucosidase inhibitor N-butyldeoxynojirimycin inhibits human immunodeficiency virus entry at the level of post-CD4 binding	J Virol	"The alpha-glucosidase inhibitor N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) is a potent inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication and syncytium formation in vitro. However, the exact mechanism of action of NB-DNJ remains to be determined. In this study we have examined the impairment of HIV infectivity mediated by NB-DNJ. By two independent HIV entry assays [PCR-based HIV entry assay and entry of Cocal(HIV) pseudotypes], the reduction in infectivity was found to be due to an impairment of viral entry. No effect of NB-DNJ treatment was seen on the kinetics of the interaction between gp120 and CD4 (surface plasmon resonance; BIAcore) or on the binding of virus particles to H9 cells (using radiolabeled virions). We therefore conclude that a major mechanism of action of NB-DNJ as an inhibitor of HIV replication is the impairment of viral entry at the level of post-CD4 binding, due to an effect on viral envelope components."	1995	Sep	69	9	5791-7	7543588	0
226	"Fischer, PB"	N-butyldeoxynojirimycin-mediated inhibition of human immunodeficiency virus entry correlates with impaired gp120 shedding and gp41 exposure	J Virol	"The alpha-glucosidase inhibitor N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) is an inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication and HIV-induced syncytium formation in vitro. Although an NB-DNJ-mediated change in viral envelope N-glycan composition inhibits HIV entry at the level of post-CD4 binding, the exact mechanism of inhibition remains to be established. In this study we have examined the effects of NB-DNJ on virion envelope composition and CD4-induced gp120 shedding and gp41 exposure. Virion composition analysis revealed an NB-DNJ-mediated reduction of 15% in overall virion envelope glycoprotein content and a reduction of 26% in the proteolytic maturation of virion gp160. Taken together, these two effects resulted in a reduction of approximately 40% in virion gp120 content. CD4-induced shedding of gp120 from the surfaces of envelope-transfected Cos cells was undetectable when gp120 was expressed in the presence of NB-DNJ. Similarly, the shedding of virion-associated gp120 was reduced 7.4-fold. CD4-induced exposure of cryptic gp41 epitopes on the surfaces of HIV-expressing ACH-2 cells was also greatly impaired, and the exposure of virion-associated gp41 epitopes was reduced 4.0-fold. Finally, CD4-induced increases in the binding of antibodies to the V3 loop of ACH-2-cell-expressed envelope glycoproteins were reduced 25-fold when the glycoproteins were expressed in the presence of NB-DNJ. These results suggest that the NB-DNJ-mediated retention of glycosylated N-glycans inhibits HIV entry by a combined effect of a reduction in virion gp120 content and a qualitative defect within the remaining gp120, preventing it from undergoing conformational changes after CD4 binding."	1996	Oct	70	10	7153-60	8794362	0
227	"Fischer, PB"	N-butyldeoxynojirimycin-mediated inhibition of human immunodeficiency virus entry correlates with changes in antibody recognition of the V1/V2 region of gp120	J Virol	"The alpha-glucosidase inhibitor N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) is an inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication and HIV-induced syncytium formation in vitro. Although NB-DNJ appears to inhibit HIV entry at the level of post-CD4 binding (P.B. Fischer, M. Collin, G.B. Karlsson, W. James, T.D. Butters, S.J. Davis, S. Gordon, R.A. Dwek, and F.M. Platt, J. Virol. 69:5791-5797, 1995), the exact mechanism of action remains to be established. In this study we have examined the effect of NB-DNJ on the structure of recombinant gp120 (rgpl20), expressed in CHO cells, by using a panel of 40 monoclonal antibodies. The levels of binding of antibodies to rgp120 produced in the presence [rgpl20(+)] and absence [rgpl20(-)] of NB-DNJ were compared by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and surface plasmon resonance (BIAcore; Pharmacia). The results showed an increase in the binding to rgp120(+) of antibodies directed against the C1 and C2 regions and a decrease in the binding of antibodies directed against the V1/V2 loops compared with antibody binding to rgpl20(-). A decrease in the binding to rgpl20(+) of antibodies directed against discontinuous epitopes was also observed. No differences were seen in the binding of antibodies directed against the crown of the V3 loop and the C4 region of gp120. Treatment of rgpl20 with alpha-glucosidases I and II had no effect on the differential binding observed, whereas treatment with sialidase abolished the differences seen in the binding of antibodies directed against the C1 and C2 regions of gp120. In addition to these findings, rgpl20(+) showed increased sensitivity to proteases released by CHO cells during expression, as well as to exogenous thrombin. Taken together, the data presented in this paper suggest that production of gp120 in the presence of NB-DNJ affects the conformation of the Vl/V2 loops of gpl20, as well as the overall charge of the C1 and C2 regions. These effects may play a role in the previously described NB-DNJ-mediated inhibition of HIV entry at the level of post-CD4 binding."	1996	Oct	70	10	7143-52	8794361	0
228	"Fleet, GW"	Inhibition of HIV replication by amino-sugar derivatives	FEBS Lett	"The plant alkaloids castanospermine, dihydroxymethyldihydroxypyrrolidine and deoxynojirimycin have recently been shown to have potential anti-HIV activity [(1987) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84, 8120-8124; (1987) Nature 330, 74-77; (1987) Lancet i, 1025-1026]. They are thought to act by inhibiting alpha-glucosidase I, an enzyme involved in the processing of N-linked oligosaccharides on glycoproteins. We report here the relative efficacy of a spectrum of amino-sugar derivatives as inhibition of HIV cytopathicity. Several alpha-glucosidase inhibitors and alpha-fucosidase inhibitors were found to be active at concentrations which were non-cytotoxic."	1988	Sep-12	237	01-Feb	128-32	3169233	0
229	"Franklin, M"	Sensitive gas-chromatographic determination of fluphenazine in human plasma	Clin Chem	"We describe a method for quantitative determination of fluphenazine in human plasma, based on gas chromatography of its trimethylsilyl derivative and the use of a structurally similar internal standard. We determined its concentrations in plasma of four patients who were receiving the drug intramuscularly as its decanoate, in doses ranging from 12.5 to 250 mg; the concentrations in the plasma of these patients ranged from 0.25 to 11.8 microgram/liter. The precision (CV) of the method over the range 2 to 17 microgram/liter was 6.8% when fluphenazine was extracted from 5 ml of plasma. Of 18 other drugs tested, only thioridazine and the cis and trans forms of flupenthixol interfere with the determination."	1978	Jan	24	1	41-4	618664	0
230	"Fraser, NW"	The latency-associated transcripts of herpes simplex virus: RNA in search of function	Virology		1992	Nov	191	1	01-Aug	1329311	0
231	"Frison, N"	Oligolysine-based oligosaccharide clusters: selective recognition and endocytosis by the mannose receptor and dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule 3 (ICAM-3)-grabbing nonintegrin	J Biol Chem	"Dendritic cells are potent antigen-presenting cells that express several membrane lectins, including the mannose receptor and DC-SIGN (dendritic cell-specific ICAM-3-grabbing nonintegrin). To identify highly specific ligands for these dendritic cell receptors, oligosaccharides were converted into glycosynthons (Os1) and were used to prepare oligolysine-based glycoclusters, Os-[Lys(Os)]n-Ala-Cys-NH2. Clusters containing two to six dimannosides as well as clusters containing four or five pentasaccharides (Lewisa or Lewisx) or hexasaccharides (Lewisb) were synthesized. The thiol group of the appended cysteine residue allows easy tagging by a fluorescent probe or convenient substitution with an antigen. Surface plasmon resonance was used to determine the affinity of the different glycoclusters for purified mannose receptor and DC-SIGN, whereas flow cytometry and confocal microscopy analysis allowed assessment of cell uptake of fluoresceinyl-labeled glycoclusters. Dimannoside clusters are recognized by the mannose receptor with an affinity constant close to 106 liter.mol-1 but have a very low affinity for DC-SIGN (less than 104 liter x mol-1). Conversely, Lewis clusters have a higher affinity toward DC-SIGN than toward the mannose receptor. Dimannoside clusters are efficiently taken up by human dendritic cells as well as by rat fibroblasts expressing the mannose receptor but not by HeLa cells or rat fibroblasts expressing DC-SIGN; DC-SIGN-expressing cells take up Lewis clusters. The results suggest that ligands containing dimannoside clusters can be used specifically to target the mannose receptor, whereas ligands containing Lewis clusters will be targeted to DC-SIGN."	2003	Jun-27	278	26	23922-9	12695508	0
232	"Fry, SA"	Differential glycosylation of gelatinase B from neutrophils and breast cancer cells	Adv Exp Med Biol		2005		564		103-12	16400814	0
233	"Fynan, E"	"Persistence of Marek's disease virus in a subpopulation of B cells that is transformed by avian leukosis virus, but not in normal bursal B cells"	J Virol	"Previous studies have described an augmentation of avian leukosis virus (ALV)-induced lymphoid leukosis in chickens that were coinfected with a serotype 2 Marek's disease virus (MDV) strain, SB-1. As a first step toward understanding the mechanism of this augmentation, we have analyzed the tropism of the MDV for the ALV-transformed B cell. After hatching, chickens were coinfected with ALV and a nonpathogenic strain of MDV, SB-1. Seventy primary and metastatic ALV-induced lymphomas that developed in chickens between 14 and 20 weeks of age were found, with only one exception, to carry SB-1 DNA. The MDV genome was maintained in cell lines derived from the tumors. However, MDV DNA could not be detected in nontransformed bursal B cells from chickens carrying ALV lymphomas. Moreover, during and after the lytic phase of MDV infection, SB-1 DNA was near or below the level of detection in bursal cells, suggesting that MDV most likely infects only a small subpopulation of bursal cells. By contrast, ALV-transformed B cells from MDV-free chickens could be persistently infected with MDV in vitro. These findings indicate that ALV lymphoma cells, unlike nontransformed bursal B cells, are susceptible to persistent MDV infection and can serve as a reservoir of MDV that can potentially influence the physiology of the transformed cell."	1992	Oct	66	10	5860-6	1326647	0
234	"Fynan, EF"	Latency and reactivation of Marek's disease virus in B lymphocytes transformed by avian leukosis virus	J Gen Virol	"The physical and biological state of the Marek's disease virus (MDV) genome in avian leukosis virus (ALV)-transformed cells is characterized using cell lines established from ALV tumours co-infected with the SB-1 strain of MDV. The MDV genome within the ALV-transformed cells was found to be methylated at 5' CpG 3' dinucleotides. Less than 2% of the tumour cells expressed MDV antigen and only one virus plaque that was characteristic of an MDV infection was noted when tumour cells were cocultured with fibroblasts permissive for a productive MDV infection. However, when methylation of the MDV genome was prevented by culturing the tumour cell lines in the presence of 5-azacytidine, both MDV antigen expression and viral replication increased. Based on these results, it appears that MDV resides within the ALV-transformed cells in a latent state and that MDV latency might be influenced, to some extent, by methylation of the MDV genome."	1993	Oct	74 ( Pt 10)		2163-70	7691987	0
235	"Garcia, A"	Extensive analysis of the human platelet proteome by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry	Proteomics	"Platelets play a key role in the control of bleeding and wound healing, contributing to the formation of vascular plugs. Under pathologic circumstances, they are involved in thrombotic disorders, including heart disease. Since platelets do not have a nucleus, proteomics offers a powerful alternative approach to provide data on protein expression in these cells, helping to address their biology. In this publication we extend the previously reported analysis of the pI 4-5 region of the human platelet proteome to the pI 5-11 region. By using narrow pI range two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) for protein separation followed by high-throughput tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) for protein identification, we were able to identify 760 protein features, corresponding to 311 different genes, resulting in the annotation of 54% of the pI 5-11 range 2-DE proteome map. We evaluated the physicochemical properties and functions of the identified platelet proteome. Importantly, the main group of proteins identified is involved in intracellular signalling and regulation of the cytoskeleton. In addition, 11 hypothetical proteins are reported. In conclusion, this study provides a unique inventory of the platelet proteome, contributing to our understanding of platelet function and building the basis for the identification of new drug targets."	2004	Mar	4	3	656-68	14997489	0
236	"Garcia, A"	Differential proteome analysis of TRAP-activated platelets: involvement of DOK-2 and phosphorylation of RGS proteins	Blood	"We have applied a proteomics approach to analyze signaling cascades in human platelets stimulated by thrombin receptor activating peptide (TRAP). By analyzing basal and TRAP-activated platelets using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), we detected 62 differentially regulated protein features. From these, 41 could be identified by liquid chromatography-coupled tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and were found to derive from 31 different genes, 8 of which had not previously been reported in platelets, including the adapter downstream of tyrosine kinase 2 (Dok-2). Further studies revealed that the change in mobility of Dok-2 was brought about by tyrosine phosphorylation. Dok-2 tyrosine phosphorylation was also found to be involved in collagen receptor, glycoprotein VI (GPVI), signaling as well as in outside-in signaling through the major platelet integrin, alpha IIIb beta 3. These studies also provided the first demonstration of posttranslational modification of 2 regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins, RGS10 and 18. Phosphorylation of RGS18 was mapped to Ser49 by MS/MS analysis. This study provides a new approach for the identification of novel signaling molecules in activated platelets, providing new insights into the mechanisms of platelet activation and building the basis for the development of therapeutic agents for thrombotic diseases."	2004	Mar-15	103	6	2088-95	14645010	0
237	"Garcia, A"	Applying proteomics technology to platelet research	Mass Spectrom Rev	"Platelets are small enucleated cells that circulate in the blood, where they play a key role in hemostasis and contribute to the formation of vascular plugs. Pathologically, they are involved in thrombosis and heart disease. Because platelets do not have a nucleus, proteomics offers a powerful way to approach their biology. Proteomics technology is based on the huge analytical power offered by mass spectrometry in combination with several separation techniques, such as two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DGE) or multidimensional liquid chromatography. Proteomics provides information about the complete set of proteins present in platelets, the platelet proteome, including post-translational variants. Over the last years, several research groups have applied proteomics to platelet research. A detailed analysis of the general proteome and signaling cascades in human platelets will improve our knowledge of platelet function, and thereby aid the development of new therapeutic agents to treat thrombotic diseases. This review presents the major advances in mass spectrometry-based proteomics techniques and their application to platelet research, and analyzes in detail the most relevant contributions to the field."	2005	Nov-Dec	24	6	918-30	15599945	0
238	"Garner, B"	Characterization of human apolipoprotein B100 oligosaccharides in LDL subfractions derived from normal and hyperlipidemic plasma: deficiency of alpha-N-acetylneuraminyllactosyl-ceramide in light and small dense LDL particles	Glycobiology	"The carbohydrate composition of apolipoprotein (apo) B100, particularly its degree of sialylation, may contribute to the atherogenic properties of low-density lipoprotein (LDL). We analyzed LDL apoB100 glycans derived from normolipidemic, hypercholesterolemic, and hypertriglyceridemic diabetic subjects. Using exoglycosidase carbohydrate sequencing and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry to analyze fluorescently labeled oligosaccharides, we report evidence for several carbohydrates not previously identified on apoB100, including truncated complex biantennary N-glycans and hybrid N-glycans. The distribution and diversity of the apoB100 glycans isolated from all individuals was highly conserved. The N-glycan composition of apoB100 derived from five LDL subpopulations (LDL1, d = 1.018-1.023; LDL2, d = 1.023-1.030; LDL3, d = 1.030-1.040; LDL4, d = 1.040-1.051; LDL5, d = 1.051-1.065 g/ml) did not vary in normolipidemic or hypercholesterolemic subjects. Furthermore, we found no evidence for ""desialylated"" apoB100 glycans in any of the samples analyzed. Analysis of the most abundant LDL ganglioside, alpha-N-acetylneuraminyllactosyl-ceramide, revealed a deficiency in small dense LDL and in the most buoyant subpopulation. These data provide a novel explanation for the apparent deficiency of sialic acid in small dense LDL and indicate that the global apoB100 N-glycan composition is invariable in the patient groups studied."	2001	Oct	11	10	791-802	11588155	0
239	"Garner, B"	Structural elucidation of the N- and O-glycans of human apolipoprotein(a): role of o-glycans in conferring protease resistance	J Biol Chem	"Apolipoprotein(a) (apo(a)) is a multikringle domain glycoprotein that exists covalently linked to apolipoprotein B100 of low density lipoprotein, to form the lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) particle, or as proteolytic fragments. Elevated plasma concentrations of apo(a) and its fragments may promote atherosclerosis, but the underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood. The factors influencing apo(a) proteolysis are also uncertain. Here we have used exoglycosidase digestion and mass spectrometry to sequence the Asn (N)-linked and Ser/Thr (O)-linked oligosaccharides of human apo(a). We also assessed the potential role of apo(a) O-glycans in protecting thermolysin-sensitive regions of the polypeptide. Apo(a) contained two major N-glycans that accounted for 17% of the total oligosaccharide structures. The N-glycans were complex biantennary structures present in either a mono- or disialylated state. The O-glycans were mostly (80%) represented by the monosialylated core type 1 structure, NeuNAcalpha2-3Galbeta1-3GalNAc, with smaller amounts of disialylated and non-sialylated O-glycans also detected. Removal of apo(a) O-glycans by sialidase and O-glycosidase treatment dramatically increased the sensitivity of the polypeptide to thermolysin digestion. These studies provide the first direct sequencing data for apo(a) glycans and indicate a novel function for apo(a) O-glycans that is potentially related to the atherogenicity of Lp(a)."	2001	Jun-22	276	25	22200-8	11294842	413
240	"Garner, B"	Modulation of THP-1 macrophage and cholesterol-loaded foam cell apolipoprotein E levels by glycosphingolipids	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	"Macrophages synthesize and secrete apolipoprotein E (apoE) constitutively. This process is upregulated under conditions of cholesterol loading. The response to cholesterol is antiatherogenic as it is believed to promote cholesterol efflux from the artery wall. The concentration of lactosyl ceramide (LacCer), a glycosphingolipid recently discovered to regulate cellular signaling, proliferation, and expression of adhesion molecules, is also increased in atherosclerotic tissues. Here we have investigated the effect of exogenous LacCer on macrophage apoE levels. We show that increasing macrophage LacCer levels sevenfold led to reductions in cellular and secreted apoE (15 and 30%, respectively, over a 24-h period) as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A similar effect was also induced by glucosyl ceramide (GlcCer) but not by ganglioside species. When macrophages were converted to cholesterol-loaded foam cells by incubation with acetylated LDL, the resulting increase in cellular apoE levels was inhibited by 26% when the cells were subsequently enriched with LacCer. After metabolic labeling of cellular glycosphingolipids with [14C]palmitate, we also discovered that high-density lipoprotein (HDL) stimulates the efflux of glycosphingolipids from foam cells. These data imply that LacCer and GlcCer may be proatherogenic due to the suppression of macrophage apoE production. Furthermore, the efflux of glycosphingolipids from macrophage foam cells to HDL could indicate a potential pathway for their removal from the artery wall and subsequent delivery to the liver."	2002	Feb-08	290	5	1361-7	11820771	0
241	"Garner, B"	Increased glycosphingolipid levels in serum and aortae of apolipoprotein E gene knockout mice	J Lipid Res	"The apolipoprotein E gene knockout (apoE-/-) mouse develops atherosclerosis that shares many features of human atherosclerosis. Increased levels of glycosphingolipid (GSL) have been reported in human atherosclerotic lesions; however, GSL levels have not been studied in the apoE-/- mouse. Here we used HPLC methods to analyze serum and aortic GSL levels in apoE-/- and C57BL/6J control mice. The concentrations of glucosyl ceramide (GlcCer), lactosyl ceramide (LacCer), GalNAcbeta1-4Galbeta1-4Glc-Cer (GA2), and ceramide trihexoside (CTH) were increased by approximately 7-fold in the apoE-/- mouse serum compared with controls. The major serum ganglioside, N-glycolyl GalNAcbeta1-4[NeuNAcalpha2-3]Galbeta1-4Glc-Cer (N-glycolyl GM2), was increased in concentration by approximately 3-fold. A redistribution of GSLs from HDL to VLDL populations was also observed in the apoE-/- mice. These changes were accompanied by an increase in the levels of GSLs in the aortic sinus and arch of the apoE-/- mice. The spectrum of gangliosides present in the aortic tissues was more complex than that found in the lipoproteins, with the latter represented almost entirely by N-glycolyl GM2 and the former comprised of NeuNAcalpha2-3Galbeta1-4Glc-Cer (GM3), GM2, N-glycolyl GM2, GM1, GD3, and GD1a. In conclusion, neutral GSL and ganglioside levels were increased in the serum and aortae of apoE-/- mice compared with controls, and this was associated with a preferential redistribution of GSL to the proatherogenic lipoprotein populations. The apoE-/- mouse therefore represents a useful model to study the potential role of GSL metabolism in atherogenesis."	2002	Feb	43	2	205-14	11861662	0
242	"Garred, P"	Two edged role of mannose binding lectin in rheumatoid arthritis: a cross sectional study	J Rheumatol	"OBJECTIVE: We investigated whether polymorphisms in the gene of mannose binding lectin (MBL) may be associated with onset of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and whether MBL in conjunction with aggregated agalactosyl IgG (IgG-G0) may be associated with clinical and paraclinical variables. METHODS: MBL genotypes and serum concentrations were measured by polymerase chain reaction and ELISA in 189 patients with established RA. Binding of purified MBL to IgG-G0 in serum was assessed and clinical and paraclinical variables were recorded. RESULTS: The median age at onset of RA in the 3 genotypes (normal: A/A, hetero: A/0, and homozygous: 0/0 for variant alleles) was 54.1 (n = 108), 47.0 (n = 68), and 38.4 years (n = 13), respectively (p = 0.01). The frequency of variant alleles in patients with onset below the median age (50.8 yrs) was 0.32, but was 0.17 in patients with onset above 50.8 years (p = 0.003) and 0.20 in 250 controls (p = 0.001). Stratification according to erosion score (no, small, large) revealed an increasing tendency among the different groups in binding of MBL to IgG-G0, increased Health Assessment Questionnaire score, and acute phase reactants in A/A individuals, while no difference was seen among carriers of variant alleles. This effect was most pronounced in those with late onset RA. CONCLUSION: Presence of MBL variant alleles was associated with early onset of RA. MBL deficiency may, therefore, accelerate the disease. However, in patients with late onset and advanced disease our results indicate that the A/A type may be associated with additional inflammation different from that seen in carriers of variant alleles."	2000	Jan	27	1	26-34	10648014	0
243	"Gavish, M"	Comparison of the fine specificity of anti-dinitrophenyl-combining site composed of either VL dimer or VL and VH of protein 315	Biochemistry		1977	Jul-12	16	14	3154-9	70219	0
244	"Gavish, M"	Conformational flexibility of an antibody combining site composed of two identical V regions	Eur J Immunol		1978	Jan	8	1	42-6	25187	0
245	"Gavish, M"	On the role of Tyr 34L in the antibody combining site of the dinitrophenyl binding protein 315	Mol Immunol		1979	Nov	16	11	957-63	43280	0
246	"Gennaro, LA"	Capillary electrophoresis/electrospray ion trap mass spectrometry for the analysis of negatively charged derivatized and underivatized glycans	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"The increasing interest in the development of glycoproteins for therapeutic purposes has created a greater demand for methods to characterize the sugar moieties bound to them. Traditionally, released carbohydrates are derivatized using such methods as permethylation or fluorescent tagging prior to analysis by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), capillary electrophoresis (CE), or direct infusion mass spectrometry. However, little research has been performed using CE with on-line mass spectrometry (MS) detection. The CE separation of neutral oligosaccharides requires the covalent attachment of a charged species for electrophoretic migration. Among charged labels which have shown promise in assisting CE and HPLC separation is the fluorophore 8-aminonaphthalene-1,3,6-trisulfonic acid (ANTS). This report describes the qualitative profiling of charged ANTS-derivatized and underivatized complex glycans by CE with on-line electrospray ion trap mass spectrometry. Several neutral standard glycans including a maltooligosaccharide ladder were derivatized with ANTS and subjected to CE/UV and CE/MS using low pH buffers consisting of citric and 6-aminocaproic acid salts. The ANTS-derivatized species were detected as negative ions, and multiple stage MS analysis provided valuable structural information. Fragment ions were easily identified, showing promise for the identification of unknowns. N-Linked glycans released from bovine fetuin were used to demonstrate the applicability of ANTS derivatization followed by CE/MS for the analysis of negatively charged glycans. Analyses were performed on both underivatized and ANTS-derivatized species, and sialylated glycans were separated and detected in both forms. The ability of the ion trap mass spectrometer to perform multiple stage analysis was exploited, with MS5 information obtained on selected glycans. This technique presents a complementary method to existing methodologies for the profiling of glycan mixtures."	2002		16	3	192-200	11803540	0
247	"Gennaro, LA"	"Reversed-phase ion-pairing liquid chromatography/ion trap mass spectrometry for the analysis of negatively charged, derivatized glycans"	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"The significant complexity, similar polarity and lack of ionizable sites make the analysis of glycans an analytical challenge. These compounds are often derivatized and separated by normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) or capillary electrophoresis (CE) followed by UV or fluorescence detection. Due to widespread use of reversed-phase chromatography coupled to electrospray mass spectrometry as an analytical tool, our laboratory has developed this methodology for the analysis of glycans derivatized with a negatively charged tag, 8-aminonaphthalene-1,3,6-trisulfonic acid (ANTS). It is possible to exploit the ability of this negatively charged tag to interact with a mobile phase ion-pairing reagent, allowing retention on a reversed-phase C(18) column for subsequent on-line UV or MS analysis. ANTS-derivatized samples, including a maltooligosaccharide ladder and glycans released from bovine ribonuclease B, bovine fetuin, and chicken ovalbumin, were analyzed using this method. In addition to reversed-phase retention, ribonuclease B and ovalbumin derivatives displayed highly desirable isomeric separation. With the use of mass spectrometric detection for glycan identity, this allowed relative quantitation of individual components."	2003		17	14	1528-34	12845576	0
248	"Gettins, P"	Investigation of hapten-antibody interactions in McPC603 by 1 H and 31 P NMR spectroscopy	FEBS Lett		1977	Dec-01	84	1	87-91	590531	0
249	"Gettins, P"	The role of nitro groups in the binding of nitroaromatics to protein MOPC 315	Biochem J	"Two series of dinitrophenyl haptens, in which chlorine replaces one or both nitro groups, were used to investigate, by a combination of high-resolution 1H n.m.r. and fluorescence quenching, the presence of groups in the combining site of protein MOPC 315, which form hydrogen bonds to the aromatic-ring substituents of the hapten. The large differences in binding constants on successive replacement of nitro groups were shown to be due to specific hapten-substituent-protein interactions by (a) showing that there was little difference in the interaction between these haptens and 3-methylindole (a model for the residue tryptophan-93L with which the hapten stacks in protein MOPC 315), (b) proving by 1H n.m.r. that the mode of hapten binding is constant and (c) showing that the differences in Kd were consistent with the relative hydrogen-bonding capacities of chlorine and the nitro moiety. In this way it was established that each nitro group forms a hydrogen bond. Furthermore, from consideration of the 1H n.m.r. chemical shifts of several dinitrophenyl haptens and their trinitrophenyl analogues, it was shown that there is no distortion of the o-nitro group on binding to the variable fragment of protein MOPC 315."	1978	Sep-01	173	3	713-22	708369	0
250	"Gettins, P"	Nitrogen-15 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy as a probe of hapten--antibody interactions: 15N-enriched trinitrophenyl haptens binding to M315	FEBS Lett		1980	Aug-11	117	1	23-Jul	7409168	0
251	"Gettins, P"	Interaction of saccharide haptens with myeloma proteins. A 270-MHz proton nuclear magnetic resonance study	Biochemistry		1981	Dec-22	20	26	7463-9	6275881	0
252	"Gettins, P"	"The variability of nitro group--protein interaction in the 2,4-dinitrophenyl-binding antibodies M315, M460 and X25 investigated by resonance Raman spectroscopy"	Biochem J	"Pre-resonance Raman spectroscopy was used to study the interactions of the nitro groups of dinitrophenyl haptens with three dinitrophenyl-binding antibody fragments: M315 Fv, M460 Fab' and X25 Fab'. The observed changes in frequency of modes associated with the nitro moieties are compared with solvent-induced changes for the model hapten 2,4-dinitroaniline. These comparisons demonstrate a specific interaction via the H2N--C--C--2-NO2 and 4-NO2 groups with the protein. The interaction with the 4-NO2 group appears to be absent for epsilon-N-2,4-dinitrophenyl-L-lysine bound to M315 Fv fragment in contrast with either 2,4-dinitrophenylaspartate or 2,4-dinitrophenylglycine bound to M315 Fv fragment, despite the much tighter binding of the lysine derivative. The implications of this for M315 Fv fragment in terms of the antibody specificity are discussed. Comparisons of the effect of binding to M460 Fab' and X25 Fab' fragments also revealed significant differences in the shifts of the nitro group vibrations of 2,4-dinitrophenyl-lysine and 2,4-dinitroaniline."	1981	Jul-01	197	1	119-25	7317024	0
253	"Gettins, P and Dwek, RA"	Strategies for spectral assignment in the 1H NMR spectra of a 25 000 Mr murine antibody fragment: (i) in vivo deuteration and (ii) use of a denaturant	FEBS Lett		1981	Feb-23	124	2	248-52	7227530	0
254	"Gettins, P"	"A combined proton and phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance investigation of the combining site of M603, a phosphocholine-binding myeloma protein"	Biochemistry	"Phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) studies on the two phosphorus nuclei of the phosphonium analogue (Me3P+CH2CH2OPO3(2-)) of phosphocholine are used to monitor the charged subsites in the phosphocholine-binding immunoglobulin A mouse myeloma M603. Comparison of the 270-MHz 1H NMR difference spectrum on addition of either this analogue or phosphocholine to M603 and the almost identical changes in the pKa values of the phosphate groups on binding to M603 confirm that the analogue is a good model for phosphocholine. The pKa of the phosphate groups is decreased by 0.5 unit on binding to M603, which is consistent with the phosphate group being hydrogen bonding to Tyr-33H and Arg-95L, as suggested from the X-ray structure, and also implies that the binding energies for the mono- and dianion are similar. The P+Me3 moiety is used to probe the electrostatic interactions in the choline subsite. Titration of the chemical shift of the phosphonium phosphorus reflects a group on the protein that has a pKa value of less than or equal to 5, which from the refined X-ray structure (D.R. Davies, personal communication) of the site is assigned to Asp-97L. The choline subsite is monitored by using 1H NMR difference spectra, which indicates that the subsite is highly aromatic as expected from the crystal structure that places Trp-107H and Tyr-100L in this subsite. The ring current interactions from these rings can account for the 1H NMR chemical shift data on choline."	1982	Sep-28	21	20	4927-31	6291593	0
255	"Gibson, DM"	Curve fitting and unique parameter identification	J Pharm Sci		1987	Aug	76	8	658-9	11002828	0
256	"Gilmour, S"	The conformation of subcomponent C1q of the first component of human complement	Nature		1980	Jun-12	285	5765	512-4	7402297	0
257	"Gilmour, S"	"Small-angle neutron scattering studies of the conformation of myeloma protein MOPC315 and its Fab fragment, and the interaction with a monovalent dinitrophenyl hapten"	Proc R Soc Lond B Biol Sci	"The first small-angle scattering study of an immunoglobulin A is reported. Neutron measurements have been made to determine conformational parameters of the mouse myeloma protein MOPC315 and to relate these to previous immunoglobulin G results. Use of the contrast method shows that the MOPC315 IgA molecule is not simply globular, that it has a dry volume of 220.0 +/- 4.5 nm3 corresponding to a mass density of 1.275 +/- 0.025 g cm-3 and that its full and cross-sectional radii of gyration, corrected for concentration dependence, are 7.97 +/- 0.07 nm, 2.40 +/- 0.08 nm and 1.33 +/- 0.07 nm respectively. Similar study of its Fab fragment gives a dry molecular volume of 69.0 +/- 0.7 nm3, a mass density of 1.285 +/- 0.015 g cm-3 and uncorrected radii of gyration that are consistent with those of the parent and support an overall ""T"" or ""Y"" conformation in solution. Addition to saturation of a small monovalent dinitrophenyl hapten leaves the dry volume of the whole molecule unaltered, but may slightly lower one or more of its radii of gyration. The significance of this finding is discussed. Comparative studies with rabbit anti-dinitrophenyl immunoglobulin G antibody suggest a different initial conformation but similar consequences of hapten binding, which, if real, are probably unrelated to classical complement fixation."	1981	Mar-27	211	1185	433-53	6112756	0
258	"Glithero, A"	Crystal structures of two H-2Db/glycopeptide complexes suggest a molecular basis for CTL cross-reactivity	Immunity	"Two synthetic O-GlcNAc-bearing peptides that elicit H-2Db-restricted glycopeptide-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTL) have been shown to display nonreciprocal patterns of cross-reactivity. Here, we present the crystal structures of the H-2Db glycopeptide complexes to 2.85 A resolution or better. In both cases, the glycan is solvent exposed and available for direct recognition by the T cell receptor (TCR). We have modeled the complex formed between the MHC-glycopeptide complexes and their respective TCRs, showing that a single saccharide residue can be accommodated in the standard TCR-MHC geometry. The models also reveal a possible molecular basis for the observed cross-reactivity patterns of the CTL clones, which appear to be influenced by the length of the CDR3 loop and the nature of the immunizing ligand."	1999	Jan	10	1	63-74	10023771	0
259	"Graeve, L"	Polarized endocytosis by Madin-Darby canine kidney cells transfected with functional chicken liver glycoprotein receptor	J Cell Biol	"We have studied the expression of the chicken hepatic glycoprotein receptor (chicken hepatic lectin [CHL]) in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells, by transfection of its cDNA under the control of a retroviral promotor. Transfected cell lines stably express 87,000 surface receptors/cell with a kd = 13 nM. In confluent monolayers, approximately 40% of CHL is localized at the plasma membrane. 98% of the surface CHL is expressed at the basolateral surface where it performs polarized endocytosis and degradation of glycoproteins carrying terminal N-acetylglucosamine at a rate of 50,000 ligand molecules/h. Studies of the half-life of metabolically labeled receptor and of the stability of biotinylated cell surface receptor after internalization indicate that transfected CHL performs several rounds of uptake and recycling before it gets degraded. The successful expression of a functional basolateral receptor in MDCK cells opens the way for the characterization of the mechanisms that control targeting and recycling of proteins to the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells."	1989	Dec	109	6 Pt 1	2809-16	2687287	0
260	"Graeve, L"	Polarized expression of functional rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor in transfected Madin-Darby canine kidney cells	J Biol Chem	"The rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor or rat hepatic lectin (RHL) consists of two polypeptide species, a major one designated RHL-1 and a minor one designated RHL-2/3, which exists in two differentially glycosylated forms. We have studied the biosynthesis, targeting, and function of the different forms after transfection of their cDNAs into the polarized Madin-Darby canine kidney cell line. In cells expressing only RHL-1, newly synthesized protein undergoes rapid intracellular degradation and is not detected at the cell surface. In contrast, RHL-2/3 when transfected alone is much more stable and is expressed at the basolateral surface of fiber-grown cells. When both forms are expressed together, newly synthesized RHL-1 escapes rapid degradation and is detected at the basolateral surface. In double transfectants a functional receptor is formed that specifically endocytoses and degrades ligand at the basolateral side."	1990	Jan-15	265	2	1216-24	2404008	0
261	"Grafstrom, RH"	Genetically engineered bacteria to identify and produce anti-viral agents	Adv Exp Med Biol	"We have prepared a strain of Escherichia coli that expresses both the HIV protease and a Tet protein which has been modified to contain the HIV protease recognition sequence. When the protease is expressed, the bacteria will not grow in the presence of tetracycline. However, when the protease is inhibited the bacteria can grow in tetracycline containing media (Block and Grafstrom 1990). We have selected spontaneously arising Tet resistant mutants and have screened them for those that could be producing an inhibitor of HIV protease. The problems in the construction of this strain and the characterization of the various Tetr mutants are discussed."	1992		312		25-40	1514444	0
262	"Griffiths, JR"	Heterotropic interactions of ligands with phosphorylase b	Eur J Biochem	"1. The interaction of rabbit muscle glycogen phosphorylase b with pairs of ligands has been examined. 2. The electron spin resonance spectrum of a spin label, covalently attached to the protein, provided information about dissociation constants, formation of ternary complexes and both negative and positive interactions between different ligand pairs. 3. AMP competes with a series of nucleotides (ADP, ATP, CMP aand cytosine) but with adenosine a ternary enzyme - AMP - adenosine complex can be formed. 4. ADP binding is tight and ADP inhibits the AMP activation of phosphorylase b in a physiologically important concentration range. 5. The substrates glucose 1-phosphate and glycogen tighten AMP binding in the ternary complex as does the competitive inhibitor UDPG. Inorganic phosphate is different in this respect. Gluconolactone, a transition state analogue, competes with glucose 1-phosphate (but not with glycogen) but does not prevent completely the binding of the sugar phosphate. 6. The effect of glucose b-phosphate on phosphorylase is rather complex as it 'formally competes' with both AMP and UDPG probably mediated by a conformational changes and not by 'direct' interactions with these two ligands. Glycerol 2-phosphate, a commonly used buffer for phosphorylase, also shows complex interactions."	1976	Jan-02	61	1	243-51	173552	0
263	"Griffiths, JR"	Conformational changes in glycogen phosphorylase studied with a spin-label probe	Eur J Biochem	"Phosphorylase b and a were covalently modified on essentially one -- SH group per subunit by a spin label 4-(2-iodoacetamido)2,2,6,6-tetramethyl piperidinyloxyl. The labelled enzyme is fully active and exhibits all the characteristics of the native molecule. The electron spin resonance spectrum of the label depends on the nature of the ligand that is bound to the enzyme. This property of the spin label is used to study the interaction between the enzyme (both in the b and a forms) and activators (AMP, IMP, CMP), inhibitors (ADP, ATP, UDPG, glucose 6-phosphate), substrates (phosphate and glucose 1-phosphate) and other ligands (adenosine, beta-glycerol-2-phosphate). The interactions are analysed in terms of the apparent ligand dissociation constants and the multiplicity of conformations that this regulatory enzyme exhibits."	1976	Jan-02	61	1	237-42	173551	0
264	"Gu, B"	Discovery of small molecule inhibitors of West Nile virus using a high-throughput sub-genomic replicon screen	Antiviral Res	"West Nile virus (WNV) is a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae. WNV persistently infects insect cells, but can causes acute cytopathic infection of mammalian cells and is an etiologic agent of viral encephalitis in humans. By using a cell line expressing a WNV subgenomic replicon [Rossi, S.L., Zhao, Q., O'Donnell, V.K., Mason, P.W., 2005. Adaptation of West Nile virus replicons to cells in culture and use of replicon-bearing cells to probe antiviral action. Virology 331 (2), 457-470], we developed a high-throughput assay and used it to screen a library of small molecule compounds for inhibitors of WNV replication in the absence of live virus. Here we report the identification of novel small molecule inhibitors for WNV replicon replication. We demonstrate that the compounds inhibited WNV replication-dependent luciferase expression in the replicon cells and reduced WNV viral protein accumulation and viral RNA copy number in the replicon cells. Two classes of compounds with multiple hits, parazolotrahydrothophenes and pyrozolopyrimidines, showed preliminary structure-activity relationships. In WNV infection assays, one pyrozolopyrimidine compound was confirmed to have antiviral activity. These compounds should be valuable for developing anti-WNV therapeutic drugs as well as research tools to study the mechanism of WNV replication."	2006	Jun	70	2	39-50	16724398	0
265	"Guile, GR"	Analytical and preparative separation of anionic oligosaccharides by weak anion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography on an inert polymer column	Anal Biochem	"The use of ammonium formate buffers for analytical and preparative weak anion-exchange high-performance chromatography of anionic sugars is described. The method can be used for structures containing sulfate, phosphate, sialic acid, and uronic acid moieties. Excellent separation of the anionic sugars was achieved from pH 5.5 to 9. In contrast to silica matrix columns the polymer matrix column used can tolerate a wide range of pH values for the eluting buffer and it does not shed material into the eluent. The use of a single volatile buffer avoids additional purification steps to recover separated sugars suitable for further structural and functional analyses."	1994	Oct	222	1	231-5	7856854	0
266	"Guile, GR"	A rapid high-resolution high-performance liquid chromatographic method for separating glycan mixtures and analyzing oligosaccharide profiles	Anal Biochem	"A sensitive and reproducible HPLC technology has been developed, capable of resolving sub-picomolar quantities of mixtures of fluorescently labeled neutral and acidic glycans simultaneously and in their correct molar proportions. The elution positions of standard glycans were determined in glucose units with reference to a dextran ladder, and incremental values for the addition of monosaccharides to oligosaccharide cores were calculated. This information was used to interpret the full oligosaccharide profiles of glycoproteins in a predictive manner based on arm specificity, linkage, and monosaccharide composition. The technique was applied to several systems. For example, a family of glycans isolated from the human parotid gland was extensively resolved on the basis of type and extent of outer arm fucosylation. Second, a serum IgG glycan pool was resolved into 20 peaks which were analyzed simultaneously by sequentially digesting the pool of sugars with exoglycosidase enzymes. In addition, alterations in the glycosylation of IgG associated with rheumatoid arthritis were directly monitored. The reproducibility of the separation system, the predictability of glucose unit values, and the quantitative response of the detection system for individual fluorescently labeled glycans also allowed the automatic analysis of neutral sugars using combinations of enzymes as in the reagent array analysis method (RAAM). In addition, the simultaneous resolution of both acidic (sialylated) and neutral products from the RAAM digestion allowed direct analysis of sialylated glycans, eliminating the previous need to remove sialic acid residues in a preliminary step. Overall, the technologies described here represent a significant advance toward faster, more automated, and more detailed glycan analysis."	1996	Sep-05	240	2	210-26	8811911	216
267	"Guile, GR"	Identification of highly fucosylated N-linked oligosaccharides from the human parotid gland	Eur J Biochem	"The glycosylation of a number of constituents of human saliva is known to modify its biological roles, such as its lubricating properties and binding of microbial flora. Gillece-Castro et al. [Gillece-Castro, B. L., Prakobphol, A., Burlingame, A. L., Leffler, H. & Fisher, S. J. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 17358-17368] have proposed that the major glycan on the salivary proline-rich glycoproteins is a trifucosylated biantennary sugar with one difucosylated and one unfucosylated antenna. Furthermore, they proposed that the non-fucosylated antenna mediated adherence to a peridontal pathogen, Fusobacterium nucleatum. The detailed structures and roles of other highly fucosylated glycans that co-exist in the parotid gland are not fully known. In view of the influence of outer-arm fucosylation on carbohydrate recognition processes in general, this paper reports the use of a combination of HPLC (normal and reversed phase), matrix-assisted laser-desorption/ionisation (MALDI) mass spectrometry and exoglycosidase digestions to dissect the detailed structures of the most abundant of these polyfucosylated glycans. For measurement of reversed-phase HPLC retention times, new calibration units were used which paralleled the glucose units used for normal-phase HPLC. These differed in that the difference in retention times were compared with those derived from a ladder of 2-aminobenzamide-labelled arabinose oligomers instead of the corresponding oligomers from partially hydrolysed dextran. Over sixty neutral sugars were identified from the parotid gland and many of these were additionally found substituted with sialic acid (both alpha2-3-linked and alpha2-6-linked) and sulphate. These glycans were mainly bi- and tri-antennary sugars with up to five and seven fucose residues respectively, containing fucose alpha1-3-linked to the outer-arm GlcNAc residues and alpha1-2-linked to the galactose. All fucosylated structures contained a core (alpha1-6-linked) fucose. The detailed structure of the trifucosylated biantennary glycan was confirmed, together with the structures of another 12 fucosylated biantennary glycans. Smaller amounts of hybrid and tetraantennary structures were also found and bisected glycans were shown to be constituents of parotid glycoproteins for the first time. Acidic glycans were mainly substituted with sialic acid. Most were monosialylated as the presence of fucose on the antennae was found to suppress the addition of extra sialic acid moieties. The possible functional significance of highly fucosylated N-glycans is discussed in relation to their modification of the availability of other non-reducing terminal monosaccharides for recognition processes."	1998	Dec-01	258	2	623-56	9874230	308
268	"Guo, Y"	Structural basis for distinct ligand-binding and targeting properties of the receptors DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR	Nat Struct Mol Biol	"Both the dendritic cell receptor DC-SIGN and the closely related endothelial cell receptor DC-SIGNR bind human immunodeficiency virus and enhance infection. However, biochemical and structural comparison of these receptors now reveals that they have very different physiological functions. By screening an extensive glycan array, we demonstrated that DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR have distinct ligand-binding properties. Our structural and mutagenesis data explain how both receptors bind high-mannose oligosaccharides on enveloped viruses and why only DC-SIGN binds blood group antigens, including those present on microorganisms. DC-SIGN mediates endocytosis, trafficking as a recycling receptor and releasing ligand at endosomal pH, whereas DC-SIGNR does not release ligand at low pH or mediate endocytosis. Thus, whereas DC-SIGN has dual ligand-binding properties and functions both in adhesion and in endocytosis of pathogens, DC-SIGNR binds a restricted set of ligands and has only the properties of an adhesion receptor."	2004	Jul	11	7	591-8	15195147	0
269	"Guo, Y"	All but the shortest polymorphic forms of the viral receptor DC-SIGNR assemble into stable homo- and hetero-tetramers	J Biol Chem	"Polymorphisms that affect the length of the extracellular neck region of the endothelial receptor DC-SIGNR have been linked to differences in susceptibility to infection by enveloped viruses. We have characterized the effects of these polymorphisms on the ability of DC-SIGNR to form tetramers containing the clusters of sugar-binding sites needed for binding to viral envelope glycoproteins. Chemical crosslinking and analytical ultracentrifugation experiments have been used to show that only the smallest form of DC-SIGNR is defective in homo-tetramer assembly. A novel affinity-tagging approach has been employed to demonstrate that, contrary to previous speculation, hetero-tetramers can be assembled efficiently from DC-SIGNR polypeptides of different lengths. The hetero-tetramers are stable and can be detected in fibroblasts transfected with multiple forms of DC-SIGNR. These results provide a molecular basis for interpreting the way polymorphisms affect interactions with viruses."	2006	Apr-18				16621794	0
270	"Guten, GN and Harvey, DJ"	Herniated lumbar disc with leg paralysis associated with jogging--case report	Wis Med J		1977	Oct	76	10	S119-20	919576	0
271	"Haagsman, HP"	"The major lung surfactant protein, SP 28-36, is a calcium-dependent, carbohydrate-binding protein"	J Biol Chem	"SP 28-36, a major protein of pulmonary surfactant, has striking amino acid sequence homology with soluble mannose-binding proteins isolated from rat liver and contains residues common to the carbohydrate-binding domains of other mammalian lectins. We have used carbohydrate-affinity chromatography to investigate carbohydrate-binding properties of SP 28-36 isolated from canine and human (alveolar proteinosis patients) lung lavage. SP 28-36 binds to immobilized D-mannose, L-fucose, D-galactose, and D-glucose. The protein binds only weakly to N-acetyl-D-galactosamine and N acetyl-D-glucosamine. Binding is Ca2+-dependent. The threshold Ca2+ concentration is 0.6 mM and maximal binding occurs with 1 mM Ca2+. Bound protein is quantitatively recovered by elution with 2 mM EDTA. Ba2+, Sr2+, and Mn2+, but not Mg2+, can substitute for Ca2+. Unlike some other mammalian lectins, SP 28-36 binds to carbohydrate at pH 5.0. Recombinant human SP 28-36 isolated from the media of Chinese hamster ovary cells, transfected with a DNA construct encoding SP 28-36, has similar carbohydrate-binding activity to the native proteins. Mannose affinity chromatography of the culture medium of Chinese hamster ovary cells results in an efficient purification of the secreted recombinant human SP 28-36."	1987	Oct-15	262	29	13877-80	2820982	0
272	"Hadfield, AT"	Crystal structure of the mutant D52S hen egg white lysozyme with an oligosaccharide product	J Mol Biol	"The crystal structure of a mutant hen egg white lysozyme, in which the key catalytic residue aspartic acid 52 has been changed to a serine residue (D52S HEWL), has been determined and refined to a crystallographic R value of 0.173 for all data F > 0 between 8 and 1.9 A resolution. The D52S HEWL structure is very similar to the native HEWL structure (r.m.s. deviation of main-chain atoms 0.20 A). Small shifts that result from the change in hydrogen bonding pattern on substitution of Asp by Ser were observed in the loop between beta-strands in the region of residues 46 to 49. D52S HEWL exhibits less than 1% activity against the bacterial cell wall substrate. Cocrystallisation experiments with the hexasaccharide substrate beta(1-4) polymer of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc6) resulted in crystals between 5 days and 14 days after the initial mixing of enzyme and substrate. Analysis by laser absorption mass spectrometry of the oligosaccharides present after incubation with native and D52S HEWL under conditions similar to those used for crystal growth showed that after 14 days with native HEWL complete catalysis to GlcNAc3. GlcNAc2 and GlcNac had occurred but with D52S HEWL only partial catalysis to the major products GlcNAc4 and GlcNAc2 had occurred and at least 50% of the GlcNAc6 remained intact. X-ray analysis of the D52S-oligosaccharide complex crystals showed that they contained the product GlcNAc4. The structure of the D52S HEWL-GlcNAc4 complex has been determined and refined to an R value of 0.160 for data between 8 and 2 A resolution. GlcNAc4 occupies sites A to D in the active site cleft. Careful refinement and examination of 2Fo-Fc electron density maps showed that the sugar in site D has the sofa conformation, a conformation previously observed with the HEWL complex with tetra-N-acetylglucosamine lactone transition state analogue, the HEWL complex with the cell wall trisaccharide and the phage T4 lysozyme complex with a cell wall product. The semi-axial C(5)-C(6) geometry of the sofa is stabilised by hydrogen bonds from the O-6 hydroxyl group to the main-chain N of Val109 and main-chain O of Ala107. The sugar in site D adopts the alpha configuration, seemingly in conflict with the observation that the hydrolysis of beta (1-4) glycosidie linkage by HEWL proceeds with 99.9% retention of beta-configuration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"	1994	Nov-11	243	5	856-72	7966306	0
273	"Hahn, BH"	Genetic variation in HTLV-III/LAV over time in patients with AIDS or at risk for AIDS	Science	"In a study of genetic variation in the AIDS virus, HTLV-III/LAV, sequential virus isolates from persistently infected individuals were examined by Southern blot genomic analysis, molecular cloning, and nucleotide sequencing. Four to six virus isolates were obtained from each of three individuals over a 1-year or 2-year period. Changes were detected throughout the viral genomes and consisted of isolated and clustered nucleotide point mutations as well as short deletions or insertions. Results from genomic restriction mapping and nucleotide sequence comparisons indicated that viruses isolated sequentially had evolved in parallel from a common progenitor virus. The rate of evolution of HTLV-III/LAV was estimated to be at least 10(-3) nucleotide substitutions per site per year for the env gene and 10(-4) for the gag gene, values a millionfold greater than for most DNA genomes. Despite this relatively rapid rate of sequence divergence, virus isolates from any one patient were all much more related to each other than to viruses from other individuals. In view of the substantial heterogeneity among most independent HTLV-III/LAV isolates, the repeated isolation from a given individual of only highly related viruses raises the possibility that some type of interference mechanism may prevent simultaneous infection by more than one major genotypic form of the virus."	1986	Jun-20	232	4757	1548-53	3012778	0
274	"Hahn, BH"	Relation of HTLV-4 to simian and human immunodeficiency-associated viruses	Nature	"Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) is the aetiologic agent of AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) in most countries and probably originated in Central Africa like the AIDS epidemic itself. Evidence for a second major group of human immunodeficiency-associated retroviruses came from a report that West African human populations like wild-caught African green monkeys had serum antibodies that reacted more strongly with a simian immunodeficiency virus (STLV-3Mac) (ref.6) than with HIV-1. Novel T-lymphotropic retroviruses were reported to have been isolated from healthy Senegalese West Africans (HTLV-4) (ref. 4) and from African green monkeys (STLV-3AGM) (ref. 7), and a different retrovirus (HIV-2) was identified in other West African AIDS patients. Genomic analysis of HIV-2 clearly distinguished it from STLV-3 (ref. 9), but restriction enzyme site-mapping of three different HTLV-4 isolates and six different STLV-3AGM isolates showed them to be essentially indistinguishable. In this report we clone, restriction map, and partially sequence three isolates of HTLV-4 (PK82, PK289, PK190) (ref. 4). We find that these viruses differ in nucleotide sequence from each other and from three isolates of STLV-3AGM (K78, K6W, K1) (ref. 7) by 1% or less. We also report the isolation of a T-lymphotropic retrovirus from the peripheral blood of a healthy Senegalese woman which hybridizes preferentially to HIV-2 specific DNA probes. We conclude that HTLV-4 (ref. 4) and STLV-3AGM (ref. 7) are not independent virus isolates and that HIV-2 is present in Senegal as it is in other West African countries."	1987	Nov 12-18	330	6144	184-6	2823148	0
275	"Halberg, DF"	Major and minor forms of the rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor are independent galactose-binding proteins. Primary structure and glycosylation heterogeneity of minor receptor forms	J Biol Chem	"Preparations of the rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor (rat hepatic lectin, RHL), which is responsible for the selective uptake of partially deglycosylated serum glycoproteins, have been found to contain multiple polypeptide species. A method has been developed for separating the predominant species (RHL-1) from the minor species (RHL-2/3) using conditions in which RHL-1 retains its galactose-binding activity. Endoglycosidase digestion and lectin blotting have been utilized to demonstrate that RHL-2 and RHL-3 differ by the presence of different carbohydrate structures attached to a common peptide backbone. Antisera specific for RHL-1 and RHL-2/3 have been prepared and utilized to analyze the results of cross-linking experiments performed on purified receptor and hepatocyte membranes. The results show that RHL-1 and RHL-2/3 polypeptides are each associated into homooligomers but are physically unlinked to each other. The structure of the RHL-2/3 polypeptide has been established by protein and cDNA sequence analysis, which reveals that this protein is homologous to RHL-1 throughout its length but contains one major insertion of 18 amino acids near its NH2 terminus. The COOH-terminal portion of the RHL-2/3 polypeptide has been demonstrated to contain a galactose-recognition domain by expression in an in vitro transcription/translation system. The results of these experiments indicate that RHL-1 and RHL-2/3 polypeptides are self-associated into two distinct molecules, each of which has galactose-binding activity."	1987	Jul-15	262	20	9828-38	3597443	0
276	"Halberg, DF"	A segment of the cartilage proteoglycan core protein has lectin-like activity	J Biol Chem	"A segment of 130 residues near the COOH terminus of the proteoglycan core protein derived from rat cartilage is highly homologous to the carbohydrate-recognition domain of the chicken hepatic lectin and other vertebrate carbohydrate-binding proteins. This portion of the protein has been expressed in an in vitro transcription and translation system and has been tested for its ability to interact with carbohydrates using affinity chromatography on immobilized sugars. A distinct specificity of the binding interaction is demonstrable, with fucose and galactose being the preferred ligands. However, the affinity of the expressed domain of the proteoglycan core protein is lower than that of the other known binding domains, since it elutes from the columns even in the presence of Ca2+."	1988	Jul-05	263	19	9486-90	3288637	0
277	"Halberg, FE"	Conservative surgery and radiation in the treatment of stage I and II carcinoma of the breast. American College of Radiology. ACR Appropriateness Criteria	Radiology		2000	Jun	215 Suppl		1193-205	11037542	0
278	"Hall, JP and Harvey, DJ"	The phylogeography of Amazonia revisited: new evidence from riodinid butterflies	Evolution Int J Org Evolution	"A fully resolved cladogram for 19 species in the Charis cleonus group of riodinid butterflies, which have closely parapatric ranges throughout the Amazon basin, is used to derive an area cladogram for the region. This represents the first comprehensive species-level analysis using insects and results in a hypothesis of Amazonian area relationships that is the most detailed to date. The Charis area cladogram is interpreted as supporting an historical vicariant split between the Guianas and the remainder of the Amazon and then between the upper and lower Amazon. The latter two clades can be further divided into the six most widely recognized areas of endemism and even smaller endemic centers within these, some of which, especially along the Madeira and lower Amazon Rivers, have never been previously hypothesized for butterflies. The overall pattern of historical interrelationships indicated is Guiana + ((Rondjnia + (Para + Belem)) + (Imeri + (Napo + Inambari))). The area relationships for riodinid butterflies show substantial congruence with those presented from the literature for amphibians, reptiles, birds, primates, rodents, and marsupials, suggesting a common vicariant history for these organisms. A summary area cladogram generated by combining area cladograms for all the aforementioned groups of organisms indicated the pattern of historical interrelationships to be (Guiana + (Rondjnia + (Para + Belem))) + (Imeri + (Napo + Inambari)). Charis cleonus group species distributions are noticeably larger around the upland periphery of Amazonia and smaller in the central and lower regions. A significant positive correlation between the proportion of range area above 100 m and total range size for each species is used to suggest that past sea-level rises may explain smaller range sizes in low-lying regions and that riverine barriers have been important in shaping the current distribution of C. cleonus group species."	2002	Jul	56	7	1489-97	12206248	0
279	"Hall, JP"	Extinction and biogeography in the Caribbean: new evidence from a fossil riodinid butterfly in Dominican amber	Proc Biol Sci	"We describe a new species of extinct riodinid butterfly, Voltinia dramba, from Oligo-Miocene Dominican amber (15-25 Myr ago). This appears to be the first butterfly to be taxonomically described from amber, and the first adult riodinid fossil. The series of five specimens represents probably the best-preserved fossil record for any lepidopteran. The phenomenon of extant Voltinia females ovipositing on arboreal epiphytes probably explains the discovery of multiple female V. dramba specimens in amber. Voltinia dramba appears to be one of many extinct butterfly species on Hispaniola. The northwestern Mexican distribution of the explicitly hypothesized sister species, the extant V. danforthi, supports the hypothesis that V. dramba reached Hispaniola by the 'proto-Greater Antillean arc', dating the divergence of V. dramba and V. danforthi to 40-50 Myr ago. This date is contemporaneous with the oldest known butterfly fossils, and implies a more ancient date of origin for many of the higher-level butterfly taxa than is often conceded."	2004	Apr-22	271	1541	797-801	15255097	0
280	"Halverson, KJ"	Selected topics in breast conservation therapy	Mo Med		1992	Oct	89	10	731-9	1337137	0
281	"Halverson, KJ"	Age as a prognostic factor for breast and regional nodal recurrence following breast conserving surgery and irradiation in stage I and II breast cancer	Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys	"PURPOSE: To evaluate the association between age and breast/regional nodal relapse following breast conserving surgery and irradiation. METHODS AND MATERIALS: The results of treatment in 511 patients with 519 Stage I and II breast cancers treated at Mallinkrodt Institute of Radiology and affiliated hospitals between 1958 and 1988 were reviewed. RESULTS: Seventy women, of whom 96% had axillary dissections, were 39 years of age or younger. These young patients were more likely to have chemotherapy (p < 0.0001), and tumor bed reexcision (p < 0.01), and less likely to have an undissected axilla (p < 0.01), or estrogen receptor positive tumor (p = 0.02) than the older women (> 40 years). Although breast recurrence tended to appear earlier in the younger patients (12% at 5 years for those < 40 years vs. 6% at 5 years for those older), by 7 years the breast failure rate for the two groups was the same (12%), p = 0.13. In the 37 women 35 years of age or younger, the actuarial rate of breast recurrence was 9% at 7 years. Compared to other series in the literature, in which cancers were grossly excised without regard to the microscopic margins of resection, and reexcision was not routinely performed, young women treated with breast conserving surgery and irradiation at our institution frequently underwent reexcision of the tumor bed (57%), and had negative pathologic margins of resection (75%). Regional nodal relapse was in general uncommon, and not seen with increased frequency in the youngest cohort. CONCLUSION: Our experience suggests that young age is not a contraindication to breast conserving surgery and irradiation. Although breast cancers in this cohort may have certain features rendering them prone to local failure, we believe this risk can be mitigated by appropriate patient selection and optimal surgical resection."	1993	Dec-01	27	5	1045-50	8262825	0
282	"Halverson, KJ"	Survival following breast-conserving surgery and irradiation or modified radical mastectomy in patients with invasive breast cancers with a maximum diameter of 1 cm	Mo Med	"The reported relapse-free survival for women with invasive breast cancers measuring no more than 10 mm in dimension ranges from 75% to 95%, with axillary status an important prognostic factor in most series. Further study of prognostic variables in this most favorable subset is notably limited. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 168 women with invasive breast cancers < or = 10 mm treated with either breast conserving surgery+axillary dissection (AXD) and radiation therapy, or mastectomy+AXD. The actuarial survival and survival free of distant metastases (DMFS) at 7 years was 95% and 97%, respectively. Location and size of the primary tumor were most important in predicting outcome, although statistical significance was not achieved. The 5-year distant metastases-free survival (DMFS) was 100% for central and inner quadrant tumors, compared to 97% in those with outer quadrant tumors, p = 0.18. The 5-year DMFS was 100%, 95%, and 98% for patients with cancers 2-5 mm, 6-9 mm, and 10 mm, respectively, p = 0.15. Status of the axillary lymph nodes, type of breast surgery, clinical tumor status (palpable vs. nonpalpable), age, menopausal status, histologic grade, systemic therapy, or histologic type were not found to have a significant impact on prognosis."	1993	Dec	90	12	759-63	8145701	0
283	"Halverson, KJ"	Regional nodal management and patterns of failure following conservative surgery and radiation therapy for stage I and II breast cancer	Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys	"PURPOSE: To determine the incidence, pattern of regional nodal failure, and treatment sequelae as determined by the extent of lymphatic irradiation. METHODS AND MATERIALS: The records of 511 patients with 519 Stage I and II breast cancers treated with breast conserving surgery with or without axillary dissection and irradiation were reviewed. The extent of nodal irradiation was at the discretion of the attending radiation oncologist and varied considerably over the years. Management of the axilla consisted of axillary dissection alone in 351, axillary dissection and supplemental irradiation in 74, irradiation alone in 75, and simply observation in 21 patients. RESULTS: Overall, axillary recurrence was uncommon (1.2%), but was slightly more frequent after irradiation alone (2.7%) than after surgery alone (0.3%), p = 0.14. There was no benefit for supplemental axillary irradiation after an axillary dissection yielding negative or 1 to 3 positive nodes. In the 21 patients in whom the axilla was observed, axillary recurrence was not observed. Supraclavicular failures were rare in women with negative or 1 to 3 positive axillary lymph nodes (0.5%), and not significantly affected by elective irradiation. Internal mammary node recurrence was seen in only one patient, and was not significantly influenced by elective internal mammary irradiation. Both arm and breast edema were significantly more common in women having breast and nodal irradiation than after breast irradiation alone. These sequelae were not influenced significantly by the number of lymph nodes obtained in the axillary dissection specimen. Radiation pneumonitis was seen with increased frequency with more extensive nodal radiotherapy. Pneumonitis was not found to be affected by the administration or sequencing of chemotherapy. CONCLUSION: There is little justification for axillary or supraclavicular irradiation following an axillary dissection which yields negative or minimally involved (1 to 3 positive) lymph nodes. There were too few patients with extensive axillary node metastases (> or = 4 positive) in our series to draw conclusions about the optimal extent of nodal irradiation in this subset. Elective internal mammary lymph node irradiation increases technical complexity, does not appear to be advantageous, and when combined with supraclavicular irradiation places the patient at highest risk for pneumonitis."	1993	Jul-15	26	4	593-9	8330987	0
284	"Halverson, KJ"	Management of the axilla in patients with breast cancers one centimeter or smaller	Am J Clin Oncol	"Very small breast cancers are being diagnosed with increased frequency, and, until recently, little information regarding the incidence of axillary lymph node metastases in these most favorable tumors was available. Moreover, scarce data exist regarding axillary failure in this cohort as a function of initial treatment, be it surgery, radiation, or simply observation. In the present study, limited to women with invasive cancers measuring no more than 10 mm, the incidence of pathologically positive axillary nodes was 12.3%. The incidence of nodal metastases was influenced by tumor size (albeit not quite significantly, p = .08); not one patient with a tumor < or = 5 mm had axillary node metastases, compared to 14.7% in those with cancers 6 to 10 mm. The histologic grade and tumor location were also important in predicting nodal positivity. The incidence of positive nodes was 38% in those with poorly differentiated cancers, compared to 8% and 7% in women with well and moderately differentiated cancers, respectively, p = .03. Axillary nodal positivity was seen in 17% of outer quadrant vs 3% of central and inner quadrant primaries, p < .01. The axilla was managed with surgery alone (76%), radiation alone (6%), surgery and radiation (6%), or simply observation (10%). With a median follow-up of 55 months, not one patient has suffered a nodal recurrence, and in our experience, survival free of distant relapse was not adversely affected by the omission of axillary surgery."	1994	Dec	17	6	461-6	7977160	0
285	"Harding, JJ"	Sugars including erythronic and threonic acids in human aqueous humour	Curr Eye Res	"PURPOSE. Sugars in the aqueous humour of the eye serve both as a source of nutrients to the lens and other anterior ocular tissues, and potentially as an indicator of waste products from these tissues. In this work we intended to measure the levels of sugars in human blood and aqueous humour from cataract patients with and without diabetes. After initial results we decided to identify an unknown sugar component. METHODS. Sugars were measured by hplc. The unknown sugar peak was identified by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry RESULTS. Very little fructose and sorbitol were found. Glucose levels were higher in both blood and aqueous from diabetic patients. During these analyses we found a major component that did not correspond to any sugar reported previously in aqueous humour. This was identified as a mixture of threonic and erythronic acids. CONCLUSIONS. Glucose levels increase in human aqueous humour in diabetes without markedly raised levels of sorbitol or fructose. Erythronic and threonic acids are normal components of aqueous humour and blood. They may be derived from glycated proteins or from degradation of ascorbic acid."	1999	Aug	19	2	131-6	10420182	0
286	"Harris, AL"	Pharmacokinetics of cytosine arabinoside in patients with acute myeloid leukaemia	Br J Clin Pharmacol	"1 The pharmacokinetics of cytosine arabinoside were studied after a single i.v. bolus of 2 mg/kg ara-C in patients with newly diagnosed untreated AML, using a bioassay and GC-MS method to measure the plasma concentrations. 2 Most patients showed a bi- or tri-phasic decline in plasma concentrations with time. Plasma clearance was 3.9 to 18.1 l/min as measured by the GC-MS method, and terminal half-lives varied from 7--107 min. 3 There was poor correlation of the GC-MS assay with the bioassay, probably because the latter was interfered with by the release of endogenous nucleosides from blasts after after ara-C. 4 Plasma concentrations were measured by GC-MS during continuous infusions in 14 patients. Plasma clearances were much lower than after a bolus, 0.39 to 5.25 l/min. 5 There was no correlation of response (remission or fall in peripheral blast count) with exposure to ara-C calculated from infusion dose, clearance and duration of infusion. 6 This study shows that ara-C pharmacokinetics varies markedly from patient to patient and that there is a wide range in the plasma concentrations associated with therapeutic response."	1979	Sep	8	3	219-27	291436	0
287	"Harris, KM"	The effect on apparent size of simulated pulmonary nodules of using three standard CT window settings	Clin Radiol	"This study was undertaken to determine whether three commonly used combinations of CT display window settings permit accurate measurement of pulmonary nodule size during thoracic CT examination. Forty-five rounded nodules of synthetic material of approximate soft tissue density (+70 Hounsfield units; HU), varying in size from 5.8 mm to 21.4 mm, were suspended in surgical gauze (-900 HU to -950 HU) to simulate pulmonary nodules. CT images were obtained for each nodule using 10 mm and 2 mm CT collimation and the size of each nodule was measured at three window settings: (a) 'soft tissue setting': window width (WW) 400 HU, window level (WL) +20 HU; (b) 'lung setting'. WW 850 HU, WL -750 HU; (c) 'broad lung setting': WW 1350 HU, WL -550 HU. Measurements obtained using either lung setting were highly accurate irrespective of collimation while measurements obtained using soft tissue settings were inaccurate. The choice of display window settings is an important consideration when CT is used to assess the size of pulmonary nodules."	1993	Apr	47	4	241-4	8495570	0
288	"Harvey, DJ and Reid, ST"	"The synthesis of some 5-amino-1,2,3,4,4a,5,6,11b-octahydrobenzo(a)-carbazoles"	J Chem Soc [Perkin 1]		1970		15		2074-7	5528442	0
289	"Harvey, DJ"	Detection of epoxides of allyl-substituted barbiturates in rat urine	Res Commun Chem Pathol Pharmacol		1972	Sep	4	2	247-60	5074524	0
290	"Harvey, DJ"	"Detection of a 5-(3,4-dihydroxy-1,5-cyclohexadien-1-yl)-metabolite of phenobarbital and mephobarbital in rat, guinea pig and human"	Res Commun Chem Pathol Pharmacol		1972	May	3	3	557-65	5034514	0
291	"Harvey, DJ and Horning, MG"	Derivatives for the characterization of alkyl- and aminoalkylphosphonates by gas chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry	J Chromatogr		1973	May-16	79		65-74	4708860	0
292	"Harvey, DJ and Horning, MG"	Characterization of the trimethylsilyl derivatives of sugar phosphates and related compounds by gas chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry	J Chromatogr		1973	Feb-07	76	1	51-62	4686951	0
293	"Harvey, DJ"	Characterization of the isomeric dialkylbarbituric acids formed by the reaction of barbiturates with diazoalkanes	Biomed Mass Spectrom		1974	Oct	1	5	340-4	4465003	0
294	"Harvey, DJ"	"Examination of the diphenylpropanoids of nutmeg as their trimethylsilyl, triethylsilyl and tri-n-propylsilyl derivatives using combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry"	J Chromatogr	"Ethyl acetate extracts of thirteen samples of nutmeg and one sample of mace were examined as trimethylsilyl and tri-n-propylsilyl derivatives by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Eleven compounds derived from two types of diphenylpropanoid were identified; the relative proportions and quantities of these compounds varied considerably in the different samples. Single ion chromatograms were used to obtain the relative concentration of one series of compounds. Preparation of the triethylsilyl and tri-n-propylsilyl derivatives resulted in greatly increased separation of the diphenylpropanoids over trimethylsilyl derivatives, which tended to produce a group of compounds with many unresolved peaks."	1975	Jul-02	110	1	91-102	1169257	0
295	"Harvey, DJ and Paton, WD"	Use of trimethylsilyl and other homologous trialkylsilyl derivatives for the separation and characterization of mono- and dihydroxycannabinoids by combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry	J Chromatogr	"A gas chromatographic separation of dihydroxy- from monohydroxycannabinoids by the use of homologous trialkylsilyl derivatives is discussed. Trimethylsilyl derivatives produced a group of peaks containing both sets of compounds, sometimes poorly resolved, whereas by increasing the alkyl chain length to n-butyl complete fractionation into two groups, was achieved. The mass spectra of these derivatives resembled those of the trimethylsilyl derivatives with the addition of a set of ions resulting from estimation of the Si-alkyl chains as olefins."	1975	Jun-04	109	1	73-80	1138010	0
296	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of the glucuronides of cannabidiol and hydroxycannabidiols in mouse liver	Biochem Pharmacol		1976	Oct-01	25	19	2217-9	971336	0
297	"Harvey, DJ and Paton, WD"	Characterization of three monohydroxyacid and two dihydroxyacid metabolites of delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol in mouse liver	Res Commun Chem Pathol Pharmacol	"Delta 1-Tetrahydrocannabinol-7-oic acid, together with its 2 inches-, 3 inches- and 6 alpha-monohydroxy and 2 inches, 6 alpha- and 3 inches, 6 alpha-dihydroxy derivatives have been characterized by combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry in organic extracts of mouse liver following large doses of delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol."	1976	Apr	13	4	585-99	1265340	0
298	"Harvey, DJ"	"Characterization of the butyl homologues of delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol, cannabinol and cannabidiol in samples of cannabis by combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry"	J Pharm Pharmacol	"The butyl homologues of delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol, delta1-tetrahydrocannabinolic acid, cannabinol and cannabidiol have been identified in several samples of cannabis. 8 samples contained delta1-tetrahydrocannabinolic acid, one sample contained cannabinol and one sample contained both cannabinol and cannabidiol. Separation by gas chromatography and identification by gas chromotography-mass spectrometry was achieved by the preparation of trimethylsilyl, d9-trimethylsilyl, triethylsilyl and tri-n-propylsilyl derivatives."	1976	Apr	28	4	280-5	6715	0
299	"Harvey, DJ"	In vivo metabolism of cannabinol by the mouse and rat and a comparison with a metabolism of delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol	Biomed Mass Spectrom	"The in vivo liver metabolism of cannabinol has been studied in the mouse and rat by combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Cannabinol glucuronide was the major metabolite of cannabinol in the mouse and was accompanied by relatively large amounts of 7-hydroxycannabinol, cannabinol-7-oic acid and their corresponding glucuronide conjugates. Lower concentrations of glucuronides were found in the rat. Two series of disubstituted metabolites were found containing either a 7-hydroxyl or a 7-carboxylic acid group and a second hydroxyl group in the 1 inch-4 inch positions of the sidechain. These were of low concentration in the mouse but higher in the rat; 1 inch-hydroxy metabolites were particularly abundant in the latter species. Also found in the rat livers were small amounts of sidechain monohydroxy metabolites and larger quantities of 4 inches, 5 inches-bisnorcannabinol-3 inches-oic acid; these were absent in the mouse. The metabolites were identified using the trimethylsilyl (TMS), [2H9] TMS and methyl ester-TMS derivatives, and by reduction of acid metabolites with lithium aluminium deuteride to the corresponding alcohols."	1977	Dec	4	6	364-70	597586	0
300	"Harvey, DJ"	Comparative metabolism of four allylic barbiturates and hexobarbital by the rat and guinea pig	Drug Metab Dispos	"A method for the extraction and identification of urinary metabolites of allylic barbiturates by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry is described. The metabolites from rat and guinea pig urine were extracted and separated into two fractions (an acidic and a nonacidic fraction) by chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex before converted into suitable derivatives for gas phase analysis. N,N'-dimethyl derivatives were used except in cases where metabolic N-demethylation was possible, in which case N-ethylation yielded more information. Hydroxyl, keto, and epoxy groups were converted into trimethylsilyl (TMS), alkyloxime, and chloro-TMS derivatives, respectively. This procedure was used to identify metabolites present in urine at concentrations as low as 0.1 microgram/ml. The allyl sidechains of secobarbital, alphenal, allobarbital, and aprobarbital were metabolized to epoxides, diols, and, in the case of secobarbital, to a ketol. Other sidechains were usually hydroxylated. Secobarbital was metabolized to compounds containing hydroxyl groups in both chains. Hexobarbital was metabolized by allylic hydroxylation, and no evidence of the epoxide-diol pathway was observed. The significance of the detection of epoxides of the four allylic barbiturates is discussed."	1977	Nov-Dec	5	6	527-46	21777	0
301	"Harvey, DJ"	Allyldimethylsilyl ethers as derivatives for the characterization of steroids and cannabinoids by combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry	Biomed Mass Spectrom		1977	Aug	4	4	265-74	912027	0
302	"Harvey, DJ and Paton, WD"	In vivo metabolites of delta1(6)-tetrahydrocannabinol produced by the mouse via the epoxide-diol pathway	J Pharm Pharmacol		1977	Aug	29	8	498-500	19601	0
303	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of metabolites of delta1- and delta1(6)-tetrahydrocannabinol containing a reduced double bond	J Pharm Pharmacol		1977	Aug	29	8	495-7	19600	0
304	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of di- and tri-substituted hydroxy and ketone metabolites of delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol in mouse liver	J Pharm Pharmacol	"In vivo liver metabolites of delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta1-THC) were examined with a gas chromatograph--mass spectrometer--computer system as trimethylsilyl (TMS), [2H9]TMS and methyloxime-TMS derivatives. In addition to the reported monohydroxy, acid, and hydroxyacid metabolites, the following multiply substituted metabolites were identified: 2'',7-, 3'', 7-, and 6beta,7-dihydroxy-delta1-THC; 2'',6alpha,7-, and 3'',6alpha,7-trihydroxy-delta1-THC; 2''-, 3''-, and 7-hydroxy-6-oxo-delta1-THC, and 2'',7- and 3'',7-dihydroxy-6-oxo-delta1-THC. The ketones and hydroxyacids were reduced to common alcohols with lithium aluminium deuteride and the number of deuterium atoms in the product was used to distinguish the metabolic alcohols from those produced by reduction."	1977	Aug	29	8	482-6	19597	0
305	"Harvey, DJ"	Cyclic alkylboronates as derivatives for the characterization of cannabinolic acids by combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry	Biomed Mass Spectrom	Stable cyclic methyl- and n-butylboronates were prepared from the cannabinolic acids and used as derivatives for the characterization of these compounds by combined gas chromatography mass spectrometry. Retention times of the methylboronates were comparable with those of the trimethylsilyl derivatives. The mass spectra of these derivatives were more characteristic of the cannabinoid skeleton than were the spectra of the trimethylsilyl derivatives where fragmentation was associated with the trimethylsilyl groups. Molecular weights were lower and abundant molecular ions were obtained. These derivatives also offered the possibility of distinguishing between isomeric cannabinolic acids where only isomers possessing adjacent phenolic and carboxylic functions form cyclic boronates.	1977	Apr	4	2	88-93	884211	0
306	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of glucuronides as in vivo liver conjugates of seven cannabinoids and some of their hydroxy and acid metabolites	Res Commun Chem Pathol Pharmacol	"Glucuronide conjugates of cannabidiol (CBD), 7-hydroxy-CBD, propyl-CBD, cannabinol (CBN), 7-hydroxy-CBN, CBN-7-oic acid, propyl CBN and cannabichromene have been identified as major metabolites of CBD, CBN and their propyl homologues and of cannabichromene in mouse liver. Trace amounts of the glucuronide conjugates of delta1- and delta1(6)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) were also detected. Identification was made by combined gas-liquid chromatographic and mass spectrometric studies of the trimethylsilyl (TMS), d9-TMS and methyl ester-TMS derivatives of the glucuronides and the TMS derivatives of the product of the reduction of the metabolites with lithium aluminium deuteride."	1977	Feb	16	2	265-79	847285	0
307	"Harvey, DJ and Paton, WD"	Identification of six substituted 4''-hydroxy-metabolites of of delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol in mouse liver	Res Commun Chem Pathol Pharmacol	"4''-Hydroxylation is shown to be a major metabolic route for delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta1-THC) in the mouse. Metabolites were extracted from the livers of mice treated with delta1-THC and examined by combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The 7-hydroxy-6alpha,7-dihydroxy-, 6-oxo- and 7-hydroxy-6-oxo- derivatives of 4''-hydroxy-delta1-THC together with the 4''-hydroxy- and 4'',6alpha-dihydroxy-derivatives of delta1-THC-7-oic acid were identified. Only the diol, 4'',7-dihydroxy-delta1-THC has been reported previously."	1978	Sep	21	3	435-46	705022	0
308	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification and measurement of cannabinoids and their in vivo metabolites in liver by gas chromatography--mass spectrometry	Adv Biosci		1978	Jul 22-23	22-23		45-62	756842	0
309	"Harvey, DJ and Vouros, P"	"Influence of the 6-trimethylsilyl group on the fragmentation of the trimethylsilyl derivatives of some 6-hydroxy- and 3,6-dihydroxy-steroids and related compounds"	Biomed Mass Spectrom	"The 25 eV mass spectra of the trimethylsilyl derivatives of a number of 6-hydroxy and 3,6-dihydroxy steroids together with deuterium and 18O-labeled analogs have been examined to determine the influence of the 6-OTMS group on fragmentation patterns. Ions in the cholestane series at m/z 321 and 403 were the most characteristic ions derived from the 6-OTMS function; their relative abundances, although low in the spectra of 6-OTMS steroids themselves, were considerably elevated when a 3-OTMS or 3-oxo group was present. Similar ions were present in the spectra of androstane and pregnane derivatives. No correlation was found between the abundance of these ions and the stereochemistry at C3, C5, or C6. Fragmentation mechanisms and gas chromatographic data are discussed."	1979	Apr	6	4	135-43	486706	0
310	"Harvey, DJ"	Measurement of delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol in plasma to the low picogram range by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry using metastable ion detection	J Chromatogr	"A method for the assay of delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 1-THC) in plasma using combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry with metastable ion monitoring is described. delta 1-THC was extracted with hexane and the extracts were methylated with diazomethane to shift the peaks produced by endogenous plasma constituents away from the cannabinoid region. The delta 1-THC was then converted into its trimethylsilyl derivative and quantitated using the metastable ion at m/z 371 formed in the M+ leads to [M - CH3]+ transition with [1"",1"",2"",2""-2H4]cannabinol as the internal standard. delta 1-THC could be measured to 5 pg/ml in plasma. This assay is 20-100 times more sensitive than existing assays and has the advantage of not needing the usual extensive purification step."	1980	Dec-05	202	1	83-92	6260826	0
311	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of the in vivo liver metabolites of (--)-delta 7-tetrahydrocannabinol produced by the mouse	Drug Metab Dispos	"The major in vivo metabolites of (--)-delta 7-tetrahydrocannabinol were extracted from the livers of mice after a single intraperitoneal dose and were examined by combined gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Twenty-six metabolites were identified; most of these appeared to be produced via epoxidation of the double bond, although the epoxides themselves were not detected. Major metabolites involved hydroxylation of the double bond, to give the isomeric 1 alpha- and 1 beta, 7-dihydroxyhexahydrocannabinols. Of these, the 1 alpha, 7-isomer was the major product and appeared to be produced by hydrolysis of 1 alpha, 7-epoxyhexahydrocannabinol. It was further oxidized to 1 alpha-hydroxyhexahydrocannabinol-7-oic acid. Rearrangement of the epoxide to the 7-aldehyde and subsequent reduction to either the 7-alcohol or oxidation to the 7-acid was another major metabolic route. Derivatives of all these metabolites, hydroxylated in the 2""-, 3""- and 4""-positions of the sidechain were also identified. Allylic hydroxylation, predominantly at position 6, was also observed, but this was a relatively minor route. Reduction of the double bond yielded the isomeric axial and equatorial hexahydrocannabinols in low yield."	1980	Nov-Dec	8	6	439-45	6109613	0
312	"Harvey, DJ"	Vinyldimethylsilyl ethers as derivatives for the characterization of steroids and cannabinoids by gas chromatography mass spectrometry	Biomed Mass Spectrom	"The preparation and gas chromatographic mass spectrometric properties of a number of vinyldimethylsilyl ethers of steroids and cannabinoids are reported. Gas-liquid chromatographic retention increments for the vinyldimethylsilyl ethers were about 1 methylene unit higher than those of the corresponding trimethylsilyl ethers for each derivatized hydroxyl group. The mass spectra were very similar to those of the correspondig trimethylsilyl derivatives with, in many cases, enhancement of the abundance of both the molecular ions and diagnostic fragment ions containing silicon. These properties made vinyldimethylsilyl derivatives useful for: (a) mass spectral interpretation by the shift technique; (b) correlating spectra with those of the trimethylsilyl derivativeds when vinyldimethylsilyl derivatives were used to shift diols from monohydroxy compounds in gas chromatograms; and (c) for determining the major site of RMe2SiOH loss in the mass spectra of mixed trimethylsilyl/vinyldimethylsilyl derivatives."	1980	May	7	5	211-6	7417698	0
313	"Harvey, DJ and Paton, WD"	Identification of in vivo liver metabolites of delta 6-tetrahydrocannabinol produced by the mouse	Drug Metab Dispos	"Metabolites of delta 6-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) were extracted from livers, separated from lipids by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20, and identified by combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Three alcohols, delta 6-THD-7-oic acid, five diols, six triols, five monohydroxy acids, six dihydroxy acids, two substituted ketones, an epoxide, three diols produced by hydrolysis of the epoxide, three dihydro metabolites, and a glucuronide conjugate were identified. Several other metabolites were detected but not identified. The metabolites were similar to those produced by delta 1-THC in that allylic and side-chain hydroxylation coupled with carboxylic acid formation at C7 were the major biotransformation pathways. delta 6-THC was found to be metabolized more extensively via the epoxide-diol pathway than the delta 1-isomer."	1980	May-Jun	8	3	178-86	6104583	0
314	"Harvey, DJ"	"Identification of in vivo liver metabolites of delta 1-tetra-hydrocannabinol, cannabidiol, and cannabinol produced by the guninea-pig"	J Pharm Pharmacol	"The metabolites of delta 1-tetrahydroannabinol (delta 1-THC), cannabidiol (CBD), and cannabinol (CBN) produced in vivo by the guinea-pig have been studed by combined gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, 45 metabolites of delta 1-THC were identified of which 12 have not been reported before. Several other metabolites were detected but not identified. The major metabolic routes involved allylic and aliphatic hydroxylations, oxidations to ketones and acids, oxidative degradation of the side-chain presumably by the beta-oxidation pathway, and formation of glucuronide conjugates. Di- and tri-substituted metabolites were abundant. The metabolism differed considerably from that observed in mouse and rat in that 1''- and 6 beta-hydroxylation and oxidation degradation of the side-chain were major metabolic pathways. 1''-Hydroxy-delta 1-THC was found as a pair of diasteroisomers. Similar metabolic pathways were observed with CBD; twenty metabolites were identified of which two were new. Only 6 metabolites of CBN were identified. These mainly mono-substituted in the same positions as were observed with delta 1-THC and CBD."	1980	Apr	32	4	267-71	6103056	0
315	"Harvey, DJ"	Stereospecific elimination of deuterium as a method for determining the stereochemistry of a number of metabolites of the tetrahydrocannabinols	Biomed Mass Spectrom	"The stereospecific elimination of the 3-deuterium atom from metabolites of [2H]-analogues of delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 1-THC), delta 6-THC and delta 7-THC has been investigated as a possible method for determining the stereochemistry of metabolites substituted with hydroxy or acid groups in the terpene ring. Elimination of HCOOTMS was found to involve the 3-hydrogen of the axial but not the equatorial isomer of hexahydrocannabinol-7-oic acid, a metabolite of all three cannabinoids. Similar stereospecific eliminations were observed during the loss of TMSOH from the TMS derivatives of 5 alpha-hydroxy-delta 6-THC, 6 alpha-hydroxy-delta 1-THC and 1 alpha, 2 beta-dihydroxy-delta 1-THC. Loss of TMSOH from 1 alpha, 7- and 1 beta, 7-dihydroxy-HHC involved the 3-hydrogen in both cases but the isomers could be distinguished as their alkane-boronate derivatives; only the derivative of 1 alpha, 7-dihydroxy-HHC lost the boronate ring with stereospecific removal of the 3-hydrogen. The stereochemistry of the four isomers of 1,6-dihydroxy-HHC could not be determined in this way as the [M-TMSOH]+ ions from all four compounds had lost the 3-hydrogen, presumably as the result of 1,6-bond cleavage."	1980	Jan	7	1	28-34	6249411	0
316	"Harvey, DJ"	The mass spectra of the trimethylsilyl derivatives of the hydroxy and acid metabolites of delta 1- and delta 6-tetrahydrocannabinol	Biomed Mass Spectrom	"Deuterium labelling and high resolution mass measurements have been used to investigate the fragmentation mechanisms leading to diagnostic ions in the mass spectra of the trimethylsilyl derivatives of 58 hydroxy and acid metabolites of delta 1- and delta 6-tetrahydrocannabinol and of two related compounds, 2 alpha- and 2 beta-hydroxy-delta 6-tetrahydrocannabinol. The spectra of most of the hydroxy metabolites contained abundant ions which were characteristic of the position of hydroxy substitution. These could be used diagnostically to determine the structures of polysubstituted metabolites."	1981	Dec	8	12	579-88	6275928	0
317	"Harvey, DJ"	The mass spectra of the trimethylsilyl derivatives of cis- and trans- hexahydrocannabinol and their hydroxy and acid analogues	Biomed Mass Spectrom	"The mechanisms leading to the major ions in the mass spectra of the trimethylsilyl derivatives of cis- and trans-hexahydrocannabinol, five monohydroxy analogues, eight dihydroxy analogues, and two carboxylic acid derivatives were investigated with the aid of deuterium labelling and high resolution mass measurements."	1981	Aug	8	8	366-72	6269671	0
318	"Harvey, DJ"	Gas chromatographic and mass spectrometric studies on the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol in the rabbit	J Chromatogr	Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry has been used to investigate the in vivo hepatic metabolism of delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 1-THC) in the New Zealand white rabbit. Sixteen metabolites were identified and shown to be present in different relative amounts compared with the hepatic metabolites of delta 1-THC produced by other species. The metabolic profile was also different from that reported from rabbit urine particularly with regard to the lower relative concentrations of acidic metabolites in the liver. The pharmacokinetics of delta 1-THC has been studied in the rabbit using the recently developed GC-MS method based on metastable ion monitoring. This revealed a terminal plasma delta 1-THC half life ranging from 34.16 to 59.30 h (mean 46.75 h) after a single dose and THC fat/plasma ratio of 10(3)-10(4):1.	1982	Apr-30	239		243-50	6284775	0
319	"Harvey, DJ and Tiffany, JM"	Identification of meibomian gland lipids by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry: application to the meibomian lipids of the mouse	J Chromatogr	"Methods are described for the structural determination of the constituent alcohols, steroids and fatty acids from meibomian gland esters. The compounds, obtained from hydrolysed extracts, were separated and quantified as trimethylsilyl and methyl ester-trimethylsilyl derivatives by fused-silica capillary column gas chromatography. Structural information relating to the position of chain branching and the position of double bonds in the aliphatic chains of the acids and alcohols was obtained from the mass spectra of a number of other derivatives. Thus pyrrolidide-trimethylsilyl and picolinyl ester-trimethylsilyl derivatives provided information on both branching and unsaturation. The double-bond position in unsaturated fatty acids was also examined by use of trimethylsilyl derivatives of the derived glycols. The positions of chain branching of the alcohols were determined by the spectra of their acetate and nicotinate derivatives and by their gas-liquid chromatographic retention times. In meibomian gland lipids from the mouse, cholesterol was the major constituent; alcohols from the n-, iso-, anteiso- and unsaturated series were present with iso-C26 and anteiso-C27 being the most abundant. Mono-unsaturated fatty acids belonged mainly to the omega 9 series and saturated acids belonged to the iso-, anteiso- and n-series. Several 1,2-diols were also identified. The most abundant of these had iso-C16 and iso-C20 chains. GC-MS studies on the intact wax esters showed them to be composed of the branched-chain alcohols and both branched-chain and unsaturated acids."	1984	Sep-28	301	1	173-87	6501487	0
320	"Harvey, DJ"	Measurement of free Ca2+ changes and total Ca2+ release in a single striated muscle fibre using the fluorescent indicator quin 2	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	"The fluorescent Ca2+ indicator, quin 2, has been used in isolated striated muscle fibres. There is a distinct quin 2 fluorescence peak at lambda 500 nm upon excitation at lambda 339 nm after axial injection of the potassium salt of quin 2, pH 7.1. Single voltage-clamp or current clamp electrical stimulation resulted in a distinct transient change in the fluorescence at lambda 500 nm which was not observed at lambda 400 nm, the peak of the fibre autofluorescence. Ca2+ buffering is marked at high quin 2 concentrations (greater than or equal to 400 microM) producing a slow decay of force and fluorescence. At lower concentrations (8-30 microM) of quin, the decay of force is within the range observed in non-injected control fibres. A Kd of 457 nM at 5 mM free Mg2+ suggests an upper resting free Ca2+ concentration of 310 nM at 12 degrees C."	1985	May-16	128	3	1180-9	4004856	0
321	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of hepatic metabolites of n-heptyl-delta-1-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse	Xenobiotica	"Nineteen metabolites of heptyl-delta-1-THC have been identified in mouse liver using combined g.l.c. and mass spectrometry following i.p. administration of the drug. All metabolites contained either hydroxyl or carboxylic acid functions, the positions hydroxylated (2'', 3'', 6 and 7) were the same as those found previously for delta-1-THC in this species. The relative abundance of acid metabolites was much lower than for the corresponding metabolites produced from delta-1-THC itself, but hydroxylation was more extensive with metabolites containing up to four hydroxyl groups being observed."	1985	Mar	15	3	187-97	2992174	0
322	"Harvey, DJ and Leuschner, JT"	Studies on the beta-oxidative metabolism of delta 1- and delta 6-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse. The in vivo biotransformation of metabolites oxidized in the side chain	Drug Metab Dispos	"The metabolism of 5""-hydroxy-delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), 5""-hydroxy-[5"",5""-2H2]delta 1-THC, delta 1-THC-5""-oic acid, and delta 6-THC-5""-oic acid was examined by combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry in the mouse after intraperitoneal administration of the compounds. Metabolic profiles from all three derivatives of delta 1-THC were similar and showed extensive metabolism by the beta-oxidation pathway. Nine metabolites were identified, seven of which contained a C3 side chain. The major metabolite from the delta 1-THC derivatives was 7-hydroxy-4"",5""-bis,nor-delta 1-THC-3""-oic acid. Similar metabolites were found with delta 6-THC-5""-oic acid. No metabolites were found with even numbers of carbon atoms in the side chain although these have been reported to be produced in vivo by THC and several other cannabinoids in several species. Thus, the beta-oxidation route, after initial hydroxylation at C-5"", appears to be directly responsible for formation of side chain-degraded cannabinoid metabolites containing odd numbers of carbon atoms in the chain but not initially for those metabolites containing an even number of carbon atoms. These are presumed to be formed by initial alpha-oxidation to give a C4 side chain which can then undergo beta-oxidation to the cannabinoids with C2 side chains. The extensive beta-oxidation observed in these experiments, coupled with the absence of corresponding cannabinoids from delta 1-THC itself in the mouse, suggests that 5""-hydroxylation is the rate-determining step in the formation of these compounds."	1985	Mar-Apr	13	2	215-9	2859171	0
323	"Harvey, DJ and Marriage, HJ"	Metabolism of (+)-trans-delta 8-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse in vitro and in vivo	Drug Metab Dispos	"(+)-trans-delta 8-Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) was synthesized by condensation of (1R)-cis-verbenol and olivetol, and its in vitro and in vivo hepatic metabolism was studied in male mice. Metabolites were isolated by solvent extraction, purified, in the case of the in vivo study, by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20, and identified by combined gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Twenty-three metabolites were identified. These were similar to those from the (-)-isomer in that the major metabolic route was hydroxylation at C-11 followed, in vivo, by oxidation to the corresponding acid. Further hydroxylation of these compounds at C-7 and in the side chain led to a series of disubstituted metabolites. The major sites of side chain hydroxylation were 1'-, 3'-, and 4'-. Less 2'-hydroxylation was observed than with the (-)-isomer, but the major difference between the two isomers was the production of 1'-hydroxy metabolites only from the (+)-isomer. Much less hydroxylation occurred at C-7 than with the (-)-isomer so that the 7,11-disubstituted compounds, which were major metabolites of (-)-trans-delta 8-THC, were formed in insignificant concentrations. Another difference between the metabolism of the two isomers, in vitro, was the presence of substantial concentrations of monohydroxy metabolites containing hydroxylation in the side chain; these compounds are absent in metabolic profiles from (-)-trans-delta 8-THC. An epoxide and its derived glycol were detected in vitro. Another major in vitro metabolic route was the formation of an acetate derivative of 11-hydroxy-(+)-trans-delta 8-THC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"	1987	Nov-Dec	15	6	914-20	2893721	0
324	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification by combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry of constituent long-chain fatty acids and alcohols from the meibomian glands of the rat and a comparison with human meibomian lipids	J Chromatogr	"Constituent long-chain fatty acids and alcohols from the meibomian secretions of the rat were examined as trimethylsilyl (TMS) and methyl ester-TMS derivatives by capillary gas chromatography and by combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The positions of double bonds and methyl branch points were determined by the mass spectra of picolinyl esters and nicotinates for long-chain fatty acids and alcohols, respectively. Fatty acids had chain lengths from C12 to C34 and were of the straight-chain iso, anteiso and monounsaturated types. The unsaturated acids had double bonds in the omega-7 and omega-9 positions. The alcohols had corresponding structures. In common with the constituent acids and alcohols of other meibomian secretions, the chain lengths of the constituents showed a biphasic distribution with maxima around C16-C18 and C25-C27. The profile was qualitatively similar to that obtained from human meibomian secretion but with some differences in the relative proportions of certain acids and alcohols."	1987	Mar-06	414	2	253-63	3571395	0
325	"Harvey, DJ"	In vivo metabolism of (+)-trans-delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse	Biomed Environ Mass Spectrom	"(+)-trans-Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol [(+)-delta-9-THC], a biologically inactive isomer of (-)-trans-delta-9-THC, the major psychoactive constituent of cannabis, was administered intraperitoneally to male Charles River CD-1 mice; hepatic metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate and isolated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 in chloroform. The metabolites were converted into trimethylsilyl (TMS), 2H9-TMS and methyl ester/TMS derivatives for examination by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry and additional samples were prepared by reduction of metabolic fractions with lithium aluminium deuteride. Sixteen metabolites were characterized: these were alcohols and carboxylic acids, together with several of their hydroxylated analogues. The major biotransformation pathway was hydroxylation at C(11) to give the major metabolite, followed by oxidation of this compound to a carboxylic acid. Hydroxylated analogues of these two compounds were substituted mainly in the side-chain. Although metabolism was very similar to that of the naturally occurring (-)-isomer as far as positions of substitution were concerned, some differences were observed. These related mainly to the positions of hydroxylation on the side-chain, where 1'-hydroxylation was preferred to hydroxylation at the 2'-position. The major difference in metabolism between the two isomers was that much less oxidation of the 11-hydroxy group to a carboxylic acid occurred and there was less hydroxylation at the 8-position. Thus, 11-hydroxy-(+)-trans-delta-9-THC was the major metabolite and most other metabolites were hydroxylated derivatives of this compound."	1988	Jan-15	15	2	117-22	2832023	0
326	"Harvey, DJ"	Further studies on the oxidative cleavage of the pentyl side-chain of cannabinoids: identification of new biotransformation pathways in the metabolism of 3'-hydroxy-delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol by the mouse	Xenobiotica	"1. Oxidative degradation of the pentyl side-chain of cannabinoids leading to compounds containing even numbers of carbon atoms was studied by investigating the in vivo metabolism of 2'- and 3'-hydroxy-delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). 2. The hydroxy cannabinoids were administered i.p. to mice, the livers were removed after 1 h and extracted metabolites were identified by g.l.c.-mass spectrometry. 3. The major metabolic route for both compounds was hydroxylation at the allylic 11-position followed by oxidation to a carboxylic acid. Additional hydroxylation occurred at C-8. 4. Little oxidative degradation of the side-chain was found for 2'-hydroxy-delta-9-THC but abundant metabolites were formed by this route from the 3'-hydroxy compound. 5. The major metabolites of this type were acids containing three carbon atoms in the chain. These are the normal products of beta-oxidation but their formation from an (omega-2)-hydroxy intermediate appears novel. 6. Other metabolites contained two carbon atoms in the side-chain but were alcohols rather than acids and were again apparently formed by novel mechanisms. 7. The results indicate that the major route leading to cannabinoid metabolites with two-carbon side-chains (loss of three carbon atoms) is initiated by omega-2 hydroxylation."	1989	Dec	19	12	1437-47	2559552	0
327	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry of long-chain fatty acids and alcohols from hamster meibomian glands using picolinyl and nicotinate derivatives	Biomed Chromatogr	"Meibomian secretions from the hamster were hydrolysed with base and examined as TMS, [2H9]TMS, methyl ester/TMS, picolinyl ester/TMS and nicotinate/TMS derivatives by capillary GC/MS. Over 90 compounds, representing over 89% of the hydrolysed fraction, were identified. Fatty acids with chain lengths from 10 to 32 carbon atoms were found, the most common of these were in the C15 to C18 and in the C25 to C30 regions. Chain types were predominantly iso or anteiso branched, mono-unsaturated (C16 and C18) and straight. Fatty alcohols were mainly from the iso or anteiso series and tended to have longer chain lengths; the major alcohols had anteiso-25 and 27 and iso-26-chains. In these respects the secretions were similar to those reported earlier from other species, although fewer mono-unsaturated compounds with longer chains (C20 to C30 region) were found than in the rat and human. The steroid fraction was characterized by a larger number of compounds than normally present in secretions of this type. The major compound was cholesterol, in common with that in all other examined species except the rabbit."	1989	Nov	3	6	251-4	2620145	0
328	"Harvey, DJ"	Long-chain fatty acids and alcohols from gerbil meibomian lipids	J Chromatogr	"Capillary gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to identify constituent fatty acids, alcohols and steroids from gerbil meibomian glands. Over 80 compounds representing about 90% of the total fraction were identified. The major steroid was cholesterol accompanied by a lower concentration of 3 beta-hydroxy-5 alpha-cholestane. Fatty acids with chain lengths from 12 to 27 carbon atoms were present; they had predominantly straight, iso or anteiso chains with major concentrations in the C15-C18 and C25-C27 regions. Unsaturated acids had mainly 16 and 18 carbon atoms. The fatty alcohols were mainly branched-chain with the majority of compounds having chain lengths of 25-27 carbon atoms. Several alcohols, both branched and unsaturated, were found with chains of up to 33 carbon atoms long. The profile was similar to that found earlier in other species, but with lower concentrations of mono-unsaturated compounds than were found in rats and humans. Di-hydroxy compounds, on the other hand, tended to be more abundant although still of low relative concentration."	1989	Sep-29	494		23-30	2584320	0
329	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of long-chain fatty acids and alcohols from human cerumen by the use of picolinyl and nicotinate esters	Biomed Environ Mass Spectrom	"Human cerumen was hydrolysed with base and the constituents were examined as trimethylsilyl (TMS), methyl ester/TMS, picolinyl/TMS and nicotinate/TMS derivatives by gas chromatography and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. A sample was also reacted with osmium tetroxide for double bond location. The major constituents were cholesterol, squalene and several series of long-chain fatty acids and alcohols. These latter compounds had chain lengths of 12-26 carbon atoms and were predominantly either straight-chain saturated or straight-chain unsaturated compounds. Saturated branched-chain acids with methyl groups predominantly on even-numbered carbon atoms were present but were less abundant. Unsaturated, branched-chain acids were also present. The major unsaturated acids contained unsaturation at the delta-6-position or were derived from these acids by chain elongation. The compounds were similar to those found in vernix caseosa. The mass spectra of picolinyl esters were, for the first time, shown to be capable of determining both the position of unsaturation and methyl branching in the same molecule."	1989	Sep	18	9	719-23	2790258	0
330	"Harvey, DJ and Brown, NK"	"Metabolites of the 1',2'-dimethylheptyl analogue of delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse and their identification by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry"	Biomed Environ Mass Spectrom	"Metabolism of the 1,2-dimethylheptyl analogue of delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-8-DMHP) was studied in vitro using mouse hepatic microsomes and in vivo in mouse liver. Metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate, concentrated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and examined by low-resolution mass spectrometry as trimethylsilyl (TMS), (2H9)TMS and methyl ester/TMS derivatives. Reduction of metabolites with lithium aluminium deuteride also provided structural information. The electron-impact-induced mass spectrum of the TMS derivative of DMHP differed from that of its unbranched side-chain analogues in that prominent ions were produced by fragmentation of the side-chain at the expense of the retro-Diels-Alder fragmentation that was prominent in the spectra of the latter compounds. This, however, was found to reduce the relative abundance of ions diagnostic of side-chain hydroxy substitution in the spectra of the metabolites. In vitro, the only significant metabolite was 11-hydroxy-delta-8-DMHP. This is in contrast with metabolism of the corresponding delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-8-THC, n-C5-side-chain) where a number of other monohydroxy metabolites are produced. Fifteen metabolites were found in vivo, of which nine were identified. Mass spectral information was not sufficient to determine the position of one of the hydroxy groups in the other six metabolites. The major site of hydroxylation was at C-11 and the resulting hydroxy metabolite was oxidized to delta-8-DMHP-11-oic acid. In this respect metabolism paralleled that of delta-8-THC. Dihydroxylation of the double bond also occurred, presumably via the epoxide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"	1990	Oct	19	10	619-27	1962732	0
331	"Harvey, DJ and Brown, NK"	In vitro metabolism of cannabidiol in the rabbit: identification of seventeen new metabolites including thirteen dihydroxylated in the isopropenyl chain	Biomed Environ Mass Spectrom	"The metabolism of cannabidiol (CBD) was studied in liver microsomes from the female New Zealand white rabbit. Metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate, concentrated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and examined as trimethylsilyl (TMS), methyl ester/TMS and (2H9)TMS derivatives by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Thirty-nine metabolites, mainly mono-, di- and tri-hydroxy compounds, were identified; 17 of these have not been reported before. New metabolites included 8,9-dihydroxy-8,9-dihydro-CBD (two isomers) and seven monohydroxy derivatives of each of these two compounds. The mass spectra of the TMS derivatives of metabolites not hydroxylated in the isopropenyl group were generally dominated by the ion produced by retro-Diels-Alder cleavage of the terpene ring. Other structurally informative ions included the tropylium ion and fragments diagnostic of hydroxylation at C-1"", C-2"", C-3"", C-4"" and C-7. The spectra of the TMS derivatives of metabolites hydroxylated in the isopropenyl group were generally dominated by the ion at m/z 143. This involved loss of CH2OTMS and a retro-Diels-Alder fragmentation analogous to that seen in the other metabolites, but with charge retention by the other (smaller) fragment. Other, related fragment ions also characterized these metabolites."	1990	Sep	19	9	559-67	2224184	0
332	"Harvey, DJ and Brown, NK"	In vitro metabolism of cannabigerol in several mammalian species	Biomed Environ Mass Spectrom	"Microsomal incubations were prepared from the livers of male mice, rats, cats, guinea-pigs, hamsters and gerbils and both male and female rabbits and were incubated with cannabigerol (CBG), a constituent of marihuana. Metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate, concentrated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and examined as trimethylsilyl (TMS) and (2H9)TMS derivatives by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Structural elucidation was aided by hydrogenation of the metabolites to tetrahydro derivatives. Similar metabolites were produced by each of the species but the ratios of the individual compounds differed considerably. Twelve metabolites were identified. The major metabolites were monohydroxy compounds with the hydroxyl group at C-8', C-9', C-4' or at one of any position of the pentyl chain. Reduction of the delta-6' double bond was prominent in the cat to give 8'-hydroxy-6',7'-dihydro-CBG. The other major metabolic route was epoxidation of this double bond and hydrolysis to give 6',7'-dihydroxy-6',7'-dihydro-CBG. Although epoxidation of the other double bond was detected, the resulting metabolite was present in low concentration and hydrolysis was not observed. The mass spectral fragmentation of CBG and its metabolites was dominated by formation of the tropylium ion by cleavage of the C-1'--C-2' bond and by ions formed by cleavage of the C-3'--C-4' and C-4'--C-5' bonds. In addition, compounds containing hydroxylation at C-1""--C-4"" (pentyl chain) gave rise to the same abundant diagnostic ions that have been observed for corresponding metabolites of other cannabinoids."	1990	Sep	19	9	545-53	2224182	0
333	"Harvey, DJ"	Oxidative cleavage of the pentyl side-chain of cannabinoids. Identification of new biotransformation pathways in the metabolism of 4'-hydroxy-delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse	Drug Metab Dispos	"During an investigation of the mechanisms leading to the formation of metabolites of cannabinoids in which the pentyl side chain is reduced to 2, 3 or 4 carbon atoms, the further metabolism of 4'-hydroxy-delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol was investigated in vivo in mice. Metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate, concentrated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and identified by GC/MS. Ten metabolites were identified and a further two had tentative structural assignments made. The major metabolic route, in common with that seen with most cannabinoids, was hydroxylation at the allylic 11-position, followed by oxidation to a carboxylic acid. Additional hydroxylation occurred at C-8. Abundant metabolites were also formed by oxidative cleavage of the pentyl side chain. The major metabolites of this type had lost the terminal two carbon atoms to give compounds containing a carboxyethyl side chain. This is the major product normally produced by beta-oxidation of the acid formed from 5'-hydroxy-delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol. Trace concentrations of two other acids that appeared to have a carboxypropyl side chain were also found. The results show that, in addition to beta-oxidation, initiated by hydroxylation at the 5'-carbon atom (omega-hydroxylation), at least one other oxidative route, initiated by omega-1-hydroxylation, is involved in the production of metabolites with two carbon atoms missing from the pentyl side chain. This pathway does not seem to have been characterized as a biotransformation mechanism in drug metabolism and a possible mechanism is suggested."	1990	May-Jun	18	3	350-5	1974198	0
334	"Harvey, DJ and Brown, NK"	A method for the structural determination of cannabichromene metabolites by mass spectrometry	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"Ready identification of hydroxy metabolites of cannabichromene (CBC) by mass spectrometry of their trimethylsilyl derivatives is prevented by the dominant fragmentation to give a substituted chromenyl ion; this suppresses ions diagnostic of the position of metabolic hydroxylation. To overcome this difficulty, metabolites were hydrogenated over a rhodium/alumina catalyst to reduce the double bond responsible for chromenyl ion formation and to redirect the fragmentation to the site of metabolic attack. This resulted in the production of abundant diagnostic fragment ions enabling all monohydroxy-CBCs to be readily identified."	1990	Apr	4	4	135-6	2134342	0
335	"Harvey, DJ and Mechoulam, R"	Metabolites of cannabidiol identified in human urine	Xenobiotica	"1. Urine from a dystonic patient treated with cannabidiol (CBD) was examined by g.l.c.-mass spectrometry for CBD metabolites. Metabolites were identified as their trimethylsilyl (TMS), [2H9]TMS, and methyl ester/TMS derivatives and as the TMS derivatives of the product of lithium aluminium deuteride reduction. 2. Thirty-three metabolites were identified in addition to unmetabolized CBD, and a further four metabolites were partially characterized. 3. The major metabolic route was hydroxylation and oxidation at C-7 followed by further hydroxylation in the pentyl and propenyl groups to give 1""-, 2""-, 3""-, 4""- and 10-hydroxy derivatives of CBD-7-oic acid. Other metabolites, mainly acids, were formed by beta-oxidation and related biotransformations from the pentyl side-chain and these were also hydroxylated at C-6 or C-7. The major oxidized metabolite was CBD-7-oic acid containing a hydroxyethyl side-chain. 4. Two 8,9-dihydroxy compounds, presumably derived from the corresponding epoxide were identified. 5. Also present were several cyclized cannabinoids including delta-6- and delta-1-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabinol. 6. This is the first metabolic study of CBD in humans; most observed metabolic routes were typical of those found for CBD and related cannabinoids in other species."	1990	Mar	20	3	303-20	2336840	0
336	"Harvey, DJ"	Stability of cannabinoids in dried samples of cannabis dating from around 1896-1905	J Ethnopharmacol	"Cannabinoids from three samples of cannabis obtained from the Pitt-Rivers Museum, Oxford, and dating from the turn of the century were examined by gas chromatography and mass spectometry for the presence of cannabinoids. Although the samples were from different geographical locations, the profiles of constituent cannabinoids were similar. In common with other aged material, most of the cannabinoid content was present as cannabinol (CBN), the main chemical degradation product of the major psychoactive constituent, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-9-THC). However, a substantial concentration of CBN acid-A was also present; this compound is unstable to heat and readily undergoes decarboxylation to CBN. Methyl and propyl homologues of CBN, together with delta-9-THC and its naturally occurring acid-A were also found at low concentrations in all samples. Intermediates in the formation of CBN from delta-9-THC, previously identified in aged solutions of the drug, were absent or present in only trace concentrations. However, oxidation products involving hydroxylation at the benzylic positions, C-11 and C-1', not seen in solution, were identified in substantial abundance. The results suggest that decomposition of cannabis samples may proceed more slowly than originally thought."	1990	Feb	28	1	117-28	2314109	0
337	"Harvey, DJ and Brown, NK"	"In vitro metabolism of delta-11-tetrahydrocannabinol in the mouse, rat, guinea pig, rabbit, hamster, gerbil and cat"	Comp Biochem Physiol C	"1. Liver microsomes were prepared from rats, rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils, a cat and three strains of mice, and were incubated with delta-11-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-11-THC). The extracted metabolites were separated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and examined by gas chromatography and combined gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. 2. Eleven metabolites were identified; these were formed by aliphatic hydroxylation of all positions of the pentyl chain, allylic hydroxylation at C-10 and C-8 (alpha and beta), and by the epoxide-diol pathway. 3. The ratio of the metabolites varied considerably between the species. Mice and rats favoured hydroxylation at C-8-alpha with very little hydroxylation of the pentyl chain. 4. In the guinea pig, however, hydroxylation of the pentyl chain, particularly at C-4', produced the major metabolites; very little hydroxylation occurred at C-8. 5. Side-chain hydroxylation was also favoured by the gerbil. 6. In the cat and hamster, 8-beta-hydroxylation was by far the major metabolic route, accounting, in the cat, for nearly 70% of the recovered metabolites. 7. The rabbit, on the other hand, favoured the epoxide-diol pathway with over 70% of the recovered metabolites being accounted for by the 9,11-dihydro-diols. 8. The results emphasise the need to make appropriate choices of animal models for metabolic and toxicological studies in humans."	1990		96	1	65-9	1980883	0
338	"Harvey, DJ and Brown, NK"	Comparative in vitro metabolism of the cannabinoids	Pharmacol Biochem Behav	"The metabolism of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-9-THC), delta-8-THC, delta-11-THC, cannabidiol (CBD), cannabinol (CBN), cannabichromene (CBC), cannabigerol (CBG) and the equatorial-isomer of hexahydrocannabinol (HHC) was studied in microsomal preparations obtained from rats, mice, guinea pigs, rabbits, hamsters, gerbils and a cat. Identification of metabolites was by GC/MS and quantification by gas chromatography. Major metabolites were monohydroxylated compounds but the pattern of hydroxylation varied considerably between the species, no doubt reflecting the variable nature of the cytochrome P-450 mixed-function oxidases. Although the primary carbon allylic to the endocyclic double bond of tricyclic cannabinoids was usually the major site of attack, the 4' (side-chain, omega-1 position) and the terpene ring were usually favoured by the cat and hamster respectively. The guinea pig generally produced more metabolites hydroxylated in the side-chain (all positions) than did the other species. The results from HHC were very similar to those from THC, namely hydroxylation at C-11 in most species, and the production of high concentrations of 8 alpha-hydroxy-HHC in the mouse and 8 beta-hydroxy-HHC in the hamster. As this molecule lacks the double bond of the THCs and, hence, the allylic nature of C-11 and C-8, the results suggest that it is the orientation of the molecule to the active site of the cytochrome P-450 mixed-function oxidase rather than the reactivity of the C-H bond that governs the position of hydroxylation."	1991	Nov	40	3	533-40	1806943	0
339	"Harvey, DJ"	"Comparative metabolism of cannabidiol in dog, rat and man"	Pharmacol Biochem Behav	"Urinary metabolites of cannabidiol (CBD) were extracted from human, dog and rat urine, concentrated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20, and identified by GC/MS. Over 50 metabolites were identified with considerable species variation. CBD was excreted in substantial concentration from human urine, both in the free state and as its glucuronide. In dog, unusual glucoside conjugates of three metabolites (4''- and 5''-hydroxy and 6-oxo-CBD), not excreted in the unconjugated state, were found as the major metabolites at early times after drug administration. Other metabolites in all three species were mainly acids. Side-chain hydroxylated derivatives of CBD-7-oic acid were particularly abundant in human urine but much less so in dog. In the latter species the major oxidized metabolites were the products of beta-oxidation with further hydroxylation at C-6. A related, but undefined pathway, resulted in loss of three carbon atoms from the side-chain of CBD in man with the production of 2''-hydroxy-tris,nor-CBD-7-oic acid. Previous experiments indicate that 3'-hydroxy-metabolites are the precursors of compounds having this side-chain. Metabolism by the epoxide-diol pathway, resulting in dihydro-diol formation from the delta-8-double bond, gave metabolites in both dog and human urine. It was concluded that CBD could be used as a probe of the mechanism of several types of biotransformation, particularly those related to carboxylic acid metabolism, as intermediates of the type not usually seen with endogenous compounds were excreted in substantial concentration."	1991	Nov	40	3	523-32	1806942	0
340	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification and quantification of lipids from rabbit Harderian glands by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry	Biomed Chromatogr	"Lipids from hydrolysed extracts of Harderian glands from the rabbit were examined as trimethylsilyl, acetonide, nicotinate and picolinyl esters and shown to consist mainly of acylated glycerol ethers and acylated hydroxy-glycerol ethers. Constituents amounting to 98.8% of the recovered secretion were identified. Fatty acids were mainly normal, saturated compounds with chain lengths from 12 to 24 carbon atoms; n-16:0 and n-18:0 accounted for about 40% of the identified acids. Small concentrations of iso-17:0 and unsaturated acids with 18-carbon chains were also identified. Fatty alcohols were again mainly normal-unsaturated compounds; the chains varied from C18 to C25 with 20:0-OH and 22:0-OH being the most abundant. Three types of 1-alkyl glycerols were found. The major constituents had normal, saturated chains with from 14 to 23 carbon atoms with the even carbon chains predominating. These were accompanied by hydroxylated derivatives of the 16- and 18-carbon glycerol ethers with hydroxy groups in the 10, 11 and 12 positions. Branched-chain glycerol ethers were of low concentration and contained predominantly iso chains. Many of these compounds have not been reported before in this secretion. Low concentrations of the previously reported hydroxy acids with n-C14, -C15 and -C16 chains were also found. Nicotinate derivatives were applied to the structural determination of glycerol ethers for the first time and shown to reveal the position of methyl branch points in an analogous manner to that previously shown for mono- and di-hydric alcohols. Acids were identified as picolinyl esters."	1991	Jul	5	4	143-7	1912721	0
341	"Harvey, DJ and Brown, NK"	Identification of cannabichromene metabolites by mass spectrometry: identification of eight new dihydroxy metabolites in the rabbit	Biol Mass Spectrom	"Metabolites of cannabichromene (CBC) produced by hepatic microsomal incubates from rabbits and mice were examined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) as trimethylsilyl (TMS) and (2H9)TMS derivatives. Most metabolites were hydroxylated compounds whose mass spectra gave very little information on metabolite structure as fragmentation was dominated by formation of the substituted chromenyl ion. This prevented charge localization and diagnostic fragmentation at the site of metabolic attack. This paper describes the identification of these metabolites by GC/MS techniques using both deuterium-exchange reactions and hydrogenation of the metabolites to tetrahydro derivatives; the latter method was used to suppress chromenyl ion formation and to enhance the relative abundance of diagnostic fragment ions. Twenty-one metabolites were identified. Metabolites were found hydroxylated in all positions of both aliphatic chains, with additional compounds formed by epoxidation and reduction of the aliphatic double bond in the methylpentenyl chain. Dihydroxy metabolites were hydoxylated in both the pentyl and methylpentenyl chains in positions common to those hydroxylated in the monohydroxy metabolites."	1991	May	20	5	275-85	1883865	0
342	"Harvey, DJ and Brown, NK"	In vitro metabolism of the equatorial C11-methyl isomer of hexahydrocannabinol in several mammalian species	Drug Metab Dispos		1991	May-Jun	19	3	714-6	1680642	0
343	"Harvey, DJ and Brown, NK"	Electron impact-induced fragmentation of the trimethylsilyl derivatives of monohydroxy-hexahydrocannabinols	Biol Mass Spectrom	"Monohydroxylated derivatives of hexahydrocannabinols were synthesized by catalytic hydrogenation of hydroxytetrahydrocannabinols over a rhodium/alumina catalyst, reduction of tetrahydrocannabinol epoxides with lithium aluminium hydride, or by reaction of tetrahydrocannabinols with hydrogen peroxide. The electron impact-induced fragmentation of their trimethylsilyl ethers was investigated with the aid of deuterium labelling. Most of the compounds gave characteristically different mass spectra with abundant, diagnostically useful fragment ions. As hexahydrocannabinols containing hydroxy groups in all metabolically sensitive positions were readily prepared by the above methods, these provided reference samples for identification of new hydroxylated metabolites of isomeric tetrahydrocannabinols following hydrogenation. The method was validated by application to metabolites of delta-9(11)-tetrahydrocannabinol."	1991	May	20	5	292-302	1653027	0
344	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry of lipids from the rat Harderian gland	J Chromatogr	"Lipids from rat Harderian glands were extracted with ethyl acetate, hydrolysed with base and examined by gas chromatography (GC) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) as trimethylsilyl (TMS), [2H9]TMS, methyl ester-TMS, picolinyl, nicotinate and nicotinylidene derivatives. The latter three derivatives were used to reveal the structures of the alkyl chains of fatty acids, alcohols and glycerol ethers, respectively. Forty-eight compounds were identified, representing about 97% of the total extracted lipids as measured by GC peak areas. The major constituents were fatty acids with chain lengths from 12 to 22 carbon atoms (mainly C18 and C20) and fatty alcohols (C16 to C26) derived from wax esters. Most of these acids and alcohols were unsaturated in the omega-7 position and were accompanied by smaller amounts of the saturated and omega-5 monounsaturated analogues. glycerol ethers were also identified for the first time in this secretion; the ether chains contained from 14 to 19 carbon atoms (mainly 16) and were straight-chain saturated, unsaturated (omega-5 and omega-7) and branched (iso). The only sterol found was cholesterol amounting to 1.24% of the total extract."	1991	Apr-19	565	01-Feb	27-34	1874873	0
345	"Harvey, DJ"	Nicotinylidene derivatives for the structural elucidation of glycerol mono-ethers and mono-esters by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry	Biol Mass Spectrom	"Nicotinylidene and methylnicotinylidene derivatives of representative glycerol ethers and glycerol esters were prepared by their reaction with pyridine-3-carboxaldehyde and 3-acetyl pyridine respectively. Each compound gave two sets of diastereoisomers which could be separated by gas-liquid chromatography. The extent of formation of the derivatives was nearly quantitative and chromatographic peak shape was good. The compounds producing both peaks gave similar spectra but with differences that were characteristic of the isomer. The derivatives fragmented in an analogous manner to that reported earlier for nicotinate derivatives of alcohols and picolinyl derivatives of carboxylic acids, with the production of a series of diagnostic ions formed by radical-induced cleavage of the chain following random hydrogen abstraction. Branched chain compounds, exemplified by glycerol ethers, gave spectra in which one of the ions diagnostic of the branch-point was missing. Unsaturated compounds, exemplified by the glycerol esters, gave characteristic mass spectra in which separation between ions representing formal cleavage at each side of the double bond enabled the position of this bond to be determined. In addition the spectra of unsaturated compounds contained two abundant ions whose formation could be rationalized by abstraction of the allylic hydrogen atoms. The nicotinylidene derivatives gave more diagnostic spectra than the methylnicotinylidene derivatives, whose spectra were complicated by the appearance of ions produced by loss of the methyl and pyridyl groups from the derivative. Both derivatives were superior to the nicotinate derivatives of these dihydroxy compounds in that only one pyridine residue was introduced on derivatization; this gave a lower molecular weight increment and allowed compounds with longer chains to be examined.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"	1991	Feb	20	2	87-93	1883863	0
346	"Harvey, DJ"	Lipids from the guinea pig Harderian gland: use of picolinyl and other pyridine-containing derivatives to investigate the structures of novel branched-chain fatty acids and glycerol ethers	Biol Mass Spectrom	"The lipid extracted from guinea pig Harderian glands was hydrolysed and the constituents were examined as trimethylsilyl (TMS), (2H9)TMS, methyl ester/TMS, acetonide/TMS, nicotinate/TMS, picolinyl/TMS and nicotinylidene/TMS derivatives by capillary gas-liquid chromatography and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Over 70 compounds amounting to over 93% of the extract were identified. These consisted of 1-O-alkyl glycerols (glycerol ethers) with alkyl chains containing from 17 to 21 carbon atoms and fatty acids ranging from 14 to 26 carbon atoms. The alkyl chains in the glycerol ethers were straight, mono- and dimethyl-branched with the major site of branching being at C-14. All straight-chain acids from C14 to C26 were present, with the most abundant being n-24:0. Again mono- and dimethyl branched structures comprised the bulk of the remaining acids. Methyl groups tended to be towards the middle of the chain rather than in the more usual omega-1 (iso) and omega-2 (anteiso) positions, with C-14 again being a major site. The shorter-chain acids tended to have methyl groups closer to the acid group, with several of the short-chain compounds being substituted at C-2. Structural information on the acids was provided by the picolinyl derivatives and the sample provided an opportunity to evaluate these derivatives with branched acids other than the iso and anteiso compounds studied previously. They were found to be satisfactory for analysis of both mono- and dimethyl branched acids with the possible exception of compounds containing a methyl branch at C-4. However, in this case, structural information was provided by the methyl ester.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"	1991	Feb	20	2	61-9	1883861	0
347	"Harvey, DJ"	"Urinary metabolites of cannabidiol in dog, rat and man and their identification by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry"	J Chromatogr	"Urinary metabolites of cannabidiol (CBD), a non-psychoactive cannabinoid of potential therapeutic interest, were extracted from dog, rat and human urine, concentrated by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and examined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry as trimethylsilyl (TMS), [2H9]TMS, methyl ester-TMS and methyloxime-TMS derivatives. Fragmentation of the metabolites under electron-impact gave structurally informative fragment ions; computer-generated single-ion plots of these diagnostic ions were used extensively to aid metabolite identification. Over fifty metabolites were identified with considerable species variation. CBD was excreted in substantial concentration in human urine, both in the free state and as its glucuronide. In dog, unusual glucoside conjugates of three metabolites (4""- and 5""-hydroxy- and 6-oxo-CBD), not excreted in the unconjugated state, were found as the major metabolites at early times after drug administration. Other metabolites in all three species were mainly acids. Side-chain hydroxylated derivatives of CBD-7-oic acid were particularly abundant in human urine but much less so in dog. In the latter species the major oxidized metabolites were the products of beta-oxidation with further hydroxylation at C-6. A related, but undefined pathway resulted in loss of three carbon atoms from the side-chain of CBD in man with production of 2""-hydroxy-tris,nor-CBD-7-oic acid. Metabolism by the epoxide-diol pathway, resulting in dihydro-diol formation from the delta-8 double bond, gave metabolites in both dog and human urine. It was concluded that CBD could be used as a probe of the mechanism of several types of biotransformation; particularly those related to carboxylic acid metabolism as intermediates of the type not usually seen with endogenous compounds were excreted in substantial concentration."	1991	Jan-02	562	01-Feb	299-322	2026700	0
348	"Harvey, DJ"	The role of mass spectrometry in glycobiology	Glycoconj J		1992	Feb	9	1	01-Dec	1392560	0
349	"Harvey, DJ"	Quantitative aspects of the matrix-assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry of complex oligosaccharides	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"Comparative studies of the matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization of complex oligosaccharides were made using a range of mono, di- and tri-substituted benzoic acids, substituted coumarins and cinnamic acids. The best results were obtained with 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHB). Detection limits using this matrix were in the range of 100 fmol for complex and high mannose sugars, some 2-fold better than those obtained with alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid and 10-fold better than with an earlier oligosaccharide matrix, 3-amino-4-hydroxybenzoic acid. The strongest signals were achieved with a matrix-to-sample ratio of about 5000:1. Little correlation was found between the measured peak height and sample loading when 3-amino-4-hydroxybenzoic acid was used as the matrix and the signal appeared to saturate at a sample level of around 30 pmol. However, good correlation was found between the amount of sample loaded onto the target and the response when an analogous compound was used as an internal standard and peak ratios were measured. In contrast to this, the use of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid as the matrix enabled the oligosaccharide to be measured over the range 100 fmol to at least 100 pmol with an excellent linear correlation between sample quantity and response and without the need of a standard. No evidence of saturation was found with this matrix. With 2,5-DHB (other matrices were not tested), the oligosaccharide signal strength was found to fall with increasing molecular weight in a linear manner and similar to that found previously with proteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"	1993	Jul	7	7	614-9	8347867	0
350	"Harvey, DJ"	Comparison of fragmentation modes for the structural determination of complex oligosaccharides ionized by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"Fragment ions from underivatized N-linked oligosaccharides ionized by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry were obtained by spontaneous fragmentation on a magnetic sector mass spectrometer, by post-source decay (PSD) on a reflectron time-of-flight (TOF) instrument and by collision-induced dissociation on a magnetic sector instrument fitted with an orthagonal-TOF analyser. Spontaneous fragmentation on the magnetic sector instrument produced ions mainly by glycosidic cleavage together with two abundant ions formed by cross-ring cleavage of the reducing-terminal residue. The PSD spectra were similar, the majority of ions being formed by glycosidic cleavage. Internal fragment ions were abundant. High-energy collision-induced dissociation spectra recorded with the orthagonal-TOF analyser, differed considerably from the other types of spectra, particularly in the appearance of major fragment ions produced by cross-ring cleavages of most of the constituent monosaccharide residues. These ions allowed much sequence and branching information to be obtained from the oligosaccharide."	1995		9	15	1556-61	8652879	0
351	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of oligosaccharides by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization and electrospray MS	Biochem Soc Trans		1996	Aug	24	3	905-12	8878873	0
352	"Harvey, DJ"	Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation mass spectrometry of oligosaccharides and glycoconjugates	J Chromatogr A	"The technique of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI) is described and examples are given of its use for the examination of glycoproteins, glycopeptides, glycolipids and oligosaccharides. Abundant [M+H]+ ions are produced by the glycoproteins and glycopeptides, whereas glycolipids and oligosaccharides give mainly [M+Na]+ ions. Resolution on time-of-flight (TOF) instruments is poor but improved resolution can be obtained by use of ion cyclotron resonance or magnetic sector instruments. Although the technique gives mainly [M+Na]+ ions from neutral, underivatised oligosaccharides, with little fragmentation when implemented on TOF systems, the use of a reflectron enables fragment ions produced by post-source decay to be obtained. Acidic sugars give less satisfactory positive ion spectra with TOF analysers, but generally produce abundant negative ions. Extensive fragmentation is observed with these compounds when the spectra are recorded with magnetic sector instruments. Neutral glycolipids produce strong spectra from several matrices but acidic glycolipids show extensive fragmentation as the result of sialic acid loss."	1996	Jan-12	720	01-Feb	429-46	8601205	0
353	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of cleaved oligosaccharides by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization	Methods Mol Biol		1996		61		243-53	8930878	0
354	"Harvey, DJ"	High-energy collision-induced fragmentation of complex oligosaccharides ionized by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry	J Mass Spectrom	"The high-energy CID spectra of the MNa+ ions from 17 underivatized oligosaccharides of the type found attached to asparagine in glycoproteins were examined with a double-focusing mass spectrometer fitted with a tandem orthogonal time-of-flight analyser. Fragment ions were observed throughout the mass range from all compounds and provided considerable structural information in the low-picomole range. The three types of fragmentation that were observed were glycosidic cleavages, cross-ring cleavages and the formation of internal cleavage ions. The major glycosidic fragmentations were B- and Y-type cleavages (Domon and Costello nomenclature). B-cleavages were particularly abundant at GlcNAc residues. Z-ions were absent when glycosidic linkages occurred at the 6-position. Cross-ring cleavages were predominantly of the 1,5X-type, which provided much sequence and branching information. 3,5A cleavages of the core branching mannose residue were often prominent and provided information on the composition of each of the main antennae. Antenna composition was also reflected by a major internal fragment ion formed by elimination of the two GlcNAc residues of the chitobiose core together with the entire antenna at the 3-position of the core branching mannose residue. A further loss of GlcNAc as 221 mass units from this ion in the spectra of the hybrid and complex carbohydrates was indicative of the presence of a ""bisecting' (4-linked) GlcNAc substituent. Another prominent internal fragment ion containing a mannose residue and only one GlcNAc, with its substituents, was present in the spectra of the complex sugars when branching of the 3-antenna occurred."	1997	Feb	32	2	167-87	9102200	0
355	"Harvey, DJ"	Picolinyl esters for the structural determination of fatty acids by GC/MS	Mol Biotechnol	"The position of unsaturation, chain branching, and other structural features of fatty acids are not often apparent from the mass spectra of common derivatives such as methyl esters because of factors such as charge location at the carboxy termiunus and migration of double bonds. The spectra of picolinyl esters, on the other hand, contain fragment ions that provide this information. The esters are synthesized by reaction of the acids with thionyl chloride to form the acid chloride that is reacted with 3-pyridylcarbinol to give the ester. Under electron impact conditions in the mass spectrometer, an electron is removed from the nitrogen of the pyridine ring and a hydrogen atom is abstracted from the alkyl chain to this electron-deficient site. This process produces a radical site in the chain that initiates chain cleavage. Hydorgen atoms can be removed from any position of the chain with varying probability, depending on the chain structure. Thus, diagnostic ions are produced from each type of fatty acid whose masses and relative abundances reflect the structure of the alkyl chain and any substituents. Patterns of fragmentation for straight-chain, branched-chain, unsaturated and cyclic fatty acids are described together with those containing hydroxy-, epoxy-, keto-, and ether groups."	1998	Dec	10	3	251-60	9951705	0
356	"Harvey, DJ"	Perspectives in the glycosciences--matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry of carbohydrates	Glycoconj J		1998	Apr	15	4	333-8	9613819	0
357	"Harvey, DJ"	Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry of carbohydrates	Mass Spectrom Rev	"This review describes the application of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry to carbohydrate analysis and covers the period 1991-1998. The technique is particularly valuable for carbohydrates because it enables underivatised, as well as derivatised compounds to be examined. The various MALDI matrices that have been used for carbohydrate analysis are described, and the use of derivatization for improving mass spectral detection limits is also discussed. Methods for sample preparation and for extracting carbohydrates from biological media prior to mass spectrometric analysis are compared with emphasis on highly sensitive mass spectrometric methods. Quantitative aspects of MALDI are covered with respect to the relationship between signal strength and both mass and compound structure. The value of mass measurements by MALDI to provide a carbohydrate composition is stressed, together with the ability of the technique to provide fragmentation spectra. The use of in-source and post-source decay and collision-induced fragmentation in this context is described with emphasis on ions that provide information on the linkage and branching patterns of carbohydrates. The use of MALDI mass spectrometry, linked with exoglycosidase sequencing, is described for N-linked glycans derived from glycoproteins, and methods for the analysis of O-linked glycans are also covered. The review ends with a description of various applications of the technique to carbohydrates found as constituents of glycoproteins, bacterial glycolipids, sphingolipids, and glycolipid anchors."	1999	Nov-Dec	18	6	349-450	10639030	0
358	"Harvey, DJ"	Ionisation and fragmentation of complex glycans with a quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer fitted with a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation ion source	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"This paper reports the use of an experimental matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation (MALDI) ion source fitted to a quadrupole time-of-flight (Q-Tof) mass spectrometer for the analysis of carbohydrates, particularly the N-linked glycans from glycoproteins. Earlier work on the Q-Tof instrument, using electrospray ionisation, gave excellent MS/MS spectra, particularly from the [M + Na]+ ions, but suffered from the major disadvantages that the signal was often split between singly and multiply charged ions and that sensitivity fell dramatically as the molecular weight of the carbohydrate rose. The MALDI ion source did not suffer from these problems and the instrument produced excellent MS and MS/MS spectra from small amounts of complex, underivatised glycans as well as those derivatised at the reducing terminus. Positive ion MS spectra of sialylated glycans recorded on the new instrument were much less complex than those recorded with a conventional MALDI-TOF instrument because of the absence of ions resulting from metastable (post-source decay, (PSD)) fragmentations occurring in the flight tube. However, considerable fragmentation by loss of sialic acid still occurred. MS/MS spectra of the [M + Na]+ ions from all compounds were almost identical to those recorded earlier with the electrospray-Q-Tof combination and far superior to MALDI-PSD spectra recorded with reflectron-TOF instruments. Spectra are shown for neutral and sialylated N-linked glycans from chicken ovalbumin, riboflavin binding protein, alpha1-acid glycoprotein, bovine fetuin and ribonuclease B, both as free glycans and as those derivatised at their reducing termini. The technique was applied to the structural determination of N-linked glycans from human secretory IgA and Apo-B 100 from human low-density lipoprotein."	2000		14	22	2135-42	11114021	0
359	"Harvey, DJ"	Collision-induced fragmentation of underivatized N-linked carbohydrates ionized by electrospray	J Mass Spectrom	"The electrospray mass spectra and collision-induced fragmentation of neutral N-linked glycans obtained from glycoproteins were examined with a Q-TOF mass spectrometer. The glycans were ionized most effectively as adducts of alkali metals, with lithium providing the most abundant signal and caesium the least. Singly charged ions generally gave higher ion currents than doubly charged ions. Addition of formic acid could be used to produce [M + H]+ ions, but these ions were always accompanied by abundant cone-voltage fragments. The energy required for collision-induced fragmentation was found to increase in a linear manner as a function of mass with the [M + Na]+ ions requiring about four times as much energy as the [M + H]+ ions for complete fragmentation of the molecular ions. Fragmentation of the [M + H]+ ions gave predominantly B- and Y-type glycosidic fragments whereas the [M + Na]+ and [M + Li]+ ions produced a number of additional fragments including those derived from cross-ring cleavages. Little fragmentation was observed from the [M + K]+ and [M + Rb]+ ions and the only fragment to be observed from the [M + Cs]+ ion was Cs+. The [M + Na]+ and [M + Li]+ ions from all the N-linked glycans gave abundant fragments resulting from loss of the terminal GlcNAc moiety and prominent, though weaker, ions as the result of 0,2A and 2,4A cross-ring cleavages of this residue. Most other ions were the result of successive additional losses of residues from the non-reducing terminus. This pattern was particularly prominent with glycans containing several non-reducing GlcNAc residues where successive losses of 203 u were observed. Many of the ions in the low-mass range were products of several different fragmentation routes but still provided structural information. Possibly of most diagnostic importance was an ion formed by loss of 221 u (GlcNAc molecule) from an ion that had lost the 3-antenna and the chitobiose core. This latter ion, although coincident in mass with some other 'internal' fragments, often provided additional information on the composition of the antennae. Other ions defining antenna composition were weak cross-ring fragments produced from the core branching mannose residue. Glycans containing Gal-GlcNAc residues showed successive losses of this moiety, particularly from the B-type fragments resulting from loss of the reducing-terminal GlcNAc residue. The [M + Na]+ and [M + Li]+ ions from high-mannose and hybrid glycans gave a series of ions of composition (Man)nNa/Li+ where n = 1 to the total number of glycans in the molecule, allowing these sugars to be distinguished from the more highly processed complex glycans. Other ions in the spectra of the high-mannose glycans were diagnostic of chain branching but insufficient information was available to determine their mode of formation."	2000	Oct	35	10	1178-90	11110090	0
360	"Harvey, DJ"	Electrospray mass spectrometry and fragmentation of N-linked carbohydrates derivatized at the reducing terminus	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	"Derivatives were prepared from N-linked glycans by reductive amination from 2-aminobenzamide, 2-aminopyridine, 3-aminoquinoline, 2-aminoacridone, 4-amino-N-(2-diethylaminoethyl)benzamide, and the methyl, ethyl, and butyl esters of 4-aminobenzoic acid. Their electrospray and collision-induced dissociation (CID) fragmentation spectra were examined with a Q-TOF mass spectrometer. The strongest signals were obtained from the [M + Na]+ ions for all derivatives except sugars derivatized with 4-amino-N-(2-diethylaminoethyl)benzamide which gave very strong doubly charged [M + H + Na]2+ ions. The strongest [M + Na]+ ion signals were obtained from the butyl ester of 4-aminobenzoic acid and the weakest from 2-aminopyridine. The most informative spectra were recorded from the [M + Li]+ or [M + Na]+ ions. These spectra were dominated by ions produced by sequence-revealing glycosidic cleavages and ""internal"" fragments. Linkage-revealing cross-ring cleavage ions were reasonably abundant, particularly from high-mannose glycans. Although the nature of the derivative was found to have little effect upon the fragmentation pattern, 3-aminoquinoline derivatives gave marginally more abundant cross-ring fragments than the other derivatives. [M + H]+ ions formed only glycosidic fragments with few, if any, cross-ring cleavage ions. Doubly charged molecular ions gave less informative spectra; singly charged fragments were weak, and molecular ions containing hydrogen ([M + 2H]2+ and [M + H + Na]2+) fragmented as the [M + H]+ singly charged ions with no significant cross-ring cleavages."	2000	Oct	11	10	900-15	11014452	0
361	"Harvey, DJ"	Postsource decay fragmentation of N-linked carbohydrates from ovalbumin and related glycoproteins	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	"N-linked glycans were released from chicken ovalbumin by hydrazinolysis and examined by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry. Postsource decay analysis showed that most fragment ions arose as the result of internal glycosidic cleavages involving loss of nonreducing terminal residues from ions that had lost one or both GlcNAc residues from the chitobiose core [GlcNAcbeta(1 --> 4)GlcNAc]. Cross-ring fragments were abundant from the reducing-terminal GlcNAc but other cross-ring fragments were weak. The ion found to be most useful for determining the composition of the antennae attached to the 3- or 6-linked core mannose residues was an internal cleavage ion formed by loss of both the chitobiose core and the antenna linked to the 3-position of the core branching mannose. This ion was observed to lose water in the absence of a ""bisecting"" GlcNAc residue (beta1 --> 4 linked to the core mannose) and to lose a GlcNAc molecule (221 mass units) when a bisecting GlcNAc residue was present."	2000	Jun	11	6	572-7	10833031	0
362	"Harvey, DJ"	Composition of N-linked carbohydrates from ovalbumin and co-purified glycoproteins	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	"Analysis of commercial samples of chicken ovalbumin by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) showed the presence of several other co-purifying glycoproteins. These were isolated, subjected to tryptic digestion, and two of them were identified as ovomucoid and chicken riboflavin binding-protein following database matching of the peptide masses obtained by MALDI. The N-linked glycans were released from the glycoproteins and their structures were examined by MALDI-MS in combination with exoglycosidase digestion. Ovalbumin was found to be glycosylated mainly with high-mannose and hybrid structures, consistent with profiles obtained on the intact glycoprotein by electrospray. The other glycoproteins contained mainly larger, complex glycans with up to five antennae, many of which had earlier been associated with ovalbumin."	2000	Jun	11	6	564-71	10833030	0
363	"Harvey, DJ"	N-(2-diethylamino)ethyl-4-aminobenzamide derivative for high sensitivity mass spectrometric detection and structure determination of N-linked carbohydrates	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"N-Linked glycans were derivatised by reductive amination using N-(2-diethylamino)ethyl-4-aminobenzamide (DEAEAB, procainamide) and examined by electrospray mass spectrometry. This derivative ionised primarily by protonation of the tertiary amine group and attachment of an alkali metal to give [M + H + X](2+) ions which were much more abundant that doubly charged ions from glycans derivatised with other aromatic amines. Fragmentation of these ions depended on the nature of the alkali metal (X). Lithium and sodium adducts fragmented to give prominent ions produced by cleavages within the DEAEAB derivative whereas the other adducts produced more abundant ions from fragmentation of the carbohydrate. Elimination of a sugar fragment, usually by cleavage adjacent to GlcNAc or sialic acid, together with a hydrogen atom, produced the most abundant singly charged fragment ions. These ions then formally fragmented by glycosidic cleavages. Potassium, rubidium and caesium adducts produced abundant losses of the alkali metal, but the resulting ions appeared not to undergo extensive fragmentation. Most fragment ions from all of the adducts were singly charged, the remainder being doubly charged. Although the spectra of the [M + X + H](2+) ions were not as informative as those from the singly charged ions from other derivatives, they, nevertheless, provided much valuable information on the structure of these glycans."	2000		14	10	862-71	10825250	0
364	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of protein-bound carbohydrates by mass spectrometry	Proteomics	"This review outlines the use of modern methods of mass spectrometry, mainly based on electrospray ionization and matrix-assisted lased desorption/ionization, for the identification of protein-bound carbohydrates. The techniques are briefly described together with methods for glycan release and purification prior to mass spectrometry. Fragmentation of glycans, produced under various conditions, is described in the context of obtaining structural information at the sensitivity required for proteomic work."	2001	Feb	1	2	311-28	11680878	0
365	"Harvey, DJ"	Ionization and collision-induced fragmentation of N-linked and related carbohydrates using divalent cations	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	"Maltoheptaose and several N-linked glycans were ionized by electrospray as adducts with the divalent cations Mg2+, Ca2+, Mn2+, Co2+ and Cu2+. [M + metal]2+ ions were the major species in all cases with calcium giving the highest sensitivity. In addition, copper gave [M + Cu]+ ions. Other cations gave singly charged ions only by elimination of a protonated monosaccharide. Fragmentation of the [M + metal]2+ ions produced both singly and doubly charged ions with the relative abundance of doubly charged ions decreasing in the order Ca > Mg > Mn > Co > Cu. Singly charged ions were formed by elimination of a protonated monosaccharide residue followed, either by successive monosaccharide residue losses, or by a 2,4A cross-ring cleavage of the reducing-terminal monosaccharide. Formation of doubly charged fragments from [M + metal]2+ ions involved successive monosaccharide-residue losses either with or without O,2A or 2,4A cross-ring cleavages of the reducing-terminal monosaccharide. Abundant diagnostic doubly charged ions formed by loss of the 3-antenna from the O,2A cross-ring product were specific to [M + Ca]2+ ions. Fragmentation of [M + Cu]+ ions was similar to that of the corresponding [M + H]+ ions in that most cross-ring fragments were absent."	2001	Aug	12	8	926-37	11506225	0
366	"Harvey, DJ"	"""Internal residue loss"": rearrangements occurring during the fragmentation of carbohydrates derivatized at the reducing terminus"	Anal Chem	"Rearrangement reactions involving migration of fucose and, occasionally, other residues have been found in the CID spectra of [M + H]+ and [M + 2H]2+ ions, but not [M + Na]+ ions, generated from several O-linked carbohydrates and milk sugars derivatized at their reducing termini with aromatic amines such as 2-aminobenzamide. Such rearrangements, which are similar to those reported by other investigators from several underivatized carbohydrates and glycosides, cause an apparent loss of sugar residues from within a carbohydrate chain and can produce ambiguous results during spectral interpretation. A mechanism, involving initial protonation of the amine nitrogen atom of the derivative, is proposed to account for the formation of the observed ions."	2002	Feb-15	74	4	734-40	11866052	0
367	"Harvey, DJ"	Multivariate modeling of two associated cognitive outcomes in a longitudinal study	J Alzheimers Dis	"Longitudinal studies of Alzheimer's disease provide information about cognitive decline and predictors of this decline. However, overall cognitive function is comprised of many underlying processes, each of which may respond differently over time and may be affected by different predictors. In addition to studying how these processes decline independently, one might also be interested in how the processes decline together. Multivariate growth models, an extension and modification of random effects models, provide a means of dealing with these issues and enable assessing the association between the processes of interest. This technique allows for separate random effects and predictors for each process in the same model, thereby providing simultaneous estimates of the model parameters and variability for each process. We can then determine if factors associated with decline in one process are also associated with decline in another process and the extent to which the processes differ. We provide data that include information on two underlying processes of cognitive function, namely memory and executive function, to illustrate this methodology."	2003	Oct	5	5	357-65	14646026	0
368	"Harvey, DJ"	Identification of sites of glycosylation	Methods Mol Biol		2003		211		371-83	12489445	0
369	"Harvey, DJ"	Enzymatic preparation and isolation of glycopeptides	Methods Mol Biol		2003		211		83-9	12489422	0
370	"Harvey, DJ"	Fragmentation of N-linked glycans with a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization ion trap time-of-flight mass spectrometer	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"N-Linked glycans were ionized from several matrices with a Shimadzu-Biotech AXIMA-QIT matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization quadrupole ion trap time-of-flight mass spectrometer. [M+Na]+ ions were produced from all matrices and were accompanied by varying amounts of in-source fragmentation products. The least fragmentation was produced by 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and the most by alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid and 6-aza-2-thiothymine. Sialic acid loss was extensive but could be prevented by formation of methyl esters. Fragmentation produced typical low-energy-type spectra dominated by ions formed by glycosidic cleavages. MS(n) spectra (n = 3 and 4) were used to probe the pathways leading to the major diagnostic ions. Thus, for example, an ion that was formed by loss of the core GlcNAc residues and the 3-antenna was confirmed as being formed by a B/Y rather than a C/Z mechanism. The proposed structures of several cross-ring cleavage ions were confirmed and it was shown that MS3 spectra could be obtained from as little as 10 fmol of glycan."	2004		18	24	2997-3007	15536626	0
371	"Harvey, DJ"	Proteomic analysis of glycosylation: structural determination of N- and O-linked glycans by mass spectrometry	Expert Rev Proteomics	"This review summarizes the methods, mainly based on mass spectrometry, for the structural determination of N- and O-linked carbohydrates that are post-translationally attached to a large number of proteins and which play a key role in determining the function and biophysical properties of these compounds. Analysis of these carbohydrates has proved difficult in the past due to their structural complexity. However, modern analytical methods such as mass spectrometry have the ability to elucidate most structural details at the concentration levels required for proteomics. This review describes methods for direct examination of glycoproteins by mass spectrometry, the release of N- and O-linked glycans from glycoproteins separated in sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide electrophoresis gels, and the analysis of these compounds by techniques such as matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry provides the most rapid method for comparing glycan profiles and is probably most appropriate for clinical studies. One of the most promising techniques for determining the structures of N-glycans in proteomic studies is negative ion fragmentation of electrosprayed ions. This technique combines high throughput with ease of structural interpretation and provides structural details that are difficult to obtain by classical methods."	2005	Jan	2	1	87-101	15966855	0
372	"Harvey, DJ"	Fragmentation of negative ions from carbohydrates: part 3. Fragmentation of hybrid and complex N-linked glycans	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	"Hybrid and complex N-linked glycans were ionized by electrospray in the presence of ammonium nitrate to give [M + NO3]- and [M + (NO3)2]2- ions. Low energy collision-induced decomposition (CID) spectra of both types of ions were almost identical and were dominated by C-type glycosidic and cross-ring fragments, unlike the corresponding spectra of the positive ions that contained mainly B- and Y-type glycosidic fragments. Also, in contrast to fragments in the positive ion spectra, many of these ions appeared to be produced by single pathways following proton abstraction from specific hydroxy groups. Consequently, many ions were diagnostic for specific structural features. Such features included the composition of each of the two antennas, the presence or absence of a bisecting GlcNAc residue, and the location of fucose residues on the core GlcNAc residues and on the antennas. C-ions defined the sequence of the constituent monosaccharide residues. Detailed fragmentation mechanisms are proposed to account for several of the diagnostic ions."	2005	May	16	5	647-59	15862766	0
373	"Harvey, DJ"	Fragmentation of negative ions from carbohydrates: part 2. Fragmentation of high-mannose N-linked glycans	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	"[M + NO3]- And [M + (NO3)2]2- ions were produced by electrospray from neutral high-mannose ([Man](5-9)[GlcNAc]2, [Glc](1-3)[Man](4-9)[GlcNAc]2) N-linked glycans and their 2-aminobenzamide derivatives sprayed from methanol:water containing ammonium nitrate. Low energy collision-induced decomposition (CID) spectra of both types of ions were almost identical and dominated by cross-ring and C-type fragments, unlike the corresponding spectra of the positive ions that contained mainly B- and Y-type glycosidic fragments. This behavior could be rationalized by an initial proton abstraction from various hydroxy groups by the initially-formed anionic adduct. These negative ion spectra were more informative than the corresponding positive ion spectra and contained prominent ions that were diagnostic of structural features such as the composition of individual antennas that were not easily obtainable by other means. C-ions defined the sequence of the constituent monosaccharide residues. Detailed fragmentation mechanisms are proposed to account for many of the diagnostic ions."	2005	May	16	5	631-46	15862765	0
374	"Harvey, DJ"	Fragmentation of negative ions from carbohydrates: part 1. Use of nitrate and other anionic adducts for the production of negative ion electrospray spectra from N-linked carbohydrates	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	"Negative ion spectra of N-linked glycans were produced by electrospray from a dilute solution of the glycans and various salts in methanol:water using a Waters-Micromass Q-TOF Ultima Global tandem quadrupole/time-of-flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometer. Stable anionic adducts were formed with chloride, bromide, iodide, nitrate, sulphate, and phosphate. Unstable adducts that fragmented by a cross-ring cleavage of the reducing N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residue, were formed with fluoride, nitride, sulphide, carbonate, bicarbonate, hydroxide, and acetate. Nitrate adducts prepared from ammonium nitrate produced the most satisfactory spectra as they were relatively free from in-source fragmentation products and gave signals that were about ten times as strong as those from corresponding [M - H]- ions prepared from solutions containing ammonium hydroxide. Detection limits were in the region of 20 fmol. Neutral glycans gave both singly- and doubly-charged ions with the larger glycans preferring the formation of doubly-charged ions. Acidic glycans with several acidic groups gave ions in higher charge states as the result of ionization of the anionic groups. Low energy collision-induced decomposition (CID) spectra of the singly-charged ions were dominated by cross-ring and C-type fragments, unlike the corresponding spectra of the positive ions that contained mainly B- and Y-type glycosidic fragments. Formation of these ions could be rationalized by proton abstraction from various hydroxy groups by an initially-formed anionic adduct. Prominent glycosidic and cross-ring cleavage ions defined structural features such as the specific composition of each of the two antennae, presence of a bisecting GlcNAc residue and location of fucose residues, details that were difficult to determine by conventional techniques. Acidic glycans fragmented differently on account of charge localization on the acid functions rather than the hydroxy groups."	2005	May	16	5	622-30	15862764	0
375	"Harvey, DJ"	Structural determination of N-linked glycans by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry	Proteomics	"This paper reviews methods for the analysis of N-linked glycans by mass spectrometry with emphasis on studies conducted at the Oxford Glycobiology Institute. Topics covered are the release of glycans from sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gels, their purification for analysis by mass spectrometry, methods based on matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) and electrospray ionization for producing fragment ions, and details of their fragmentation. MALDI mass spectrometry provided a rapid method for profiling neutral N-linked glycans as their [M + Na](+) ions which could be fragmented by collision-induced decomposition to give spectra containing both glycosidic and cross-ring fragments. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry was more versatile in that it was relatively easy to change the type of ion that was formed and, furthermore, unlike MALDI, electrospray did not cause extensive loss of sialic acids from sialylated glycans. Negative ions formed by addition of anions such as chloride and, particularly, nitrate, to the electrospray solvent were stable and enabled singly charged ions to be obtained from larger glycans than was possible in positive ion mode. Fragmentation of negative ions followed specific pathways that defined structural details of the glycans that were difficult to obtain by classical methods such as exoglycosidase digestion."	2005	May	5	7	1774-86	15832364	0
376	"Harvey, DJ"	Collision-induced fragmentation of negative ions from N-linked glycans derivatized with 2-aminobenzoic acid	J Mass Spectrom	"N-Linked glycans from bovine ribonuclease B, chicken ovalbumin, bovine fetuin, porcine thyroglobulin and human alpha(1)-acid glycoprotein were derivatized with 2-aminobenzoic acid by reductive amination and their tandem mass spectra were recorded by negative ion electrospray ionization with a quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer. Derivatives were also prepared from 2-amino-5-methyl- and 2-amino-4,5-dimethoxybenzoic acid in order to confirm the identity of fragment ions containing the reducing terminus. Major fragments from the [M - H](-) ions from the neutral glycans retained the derivative (Y-type cleavages) and provided information on sequence and branching. Other major fragments were products of A-type cross-ring cleavages giving information on antenna structure. Singly doubly and triply charged ions were formed from sialylated glycans. They produced major fragments by loss of sialic acid and a series of singly charged ions that were similar to those from the neutral analogues. Doubly charge ions were also produced by the neutral glycans and were fragmented to form product ions with one and two charges. Again, the fragment ions with a single charge were similar to those from the singly charged parents, but branching information was less obvious because of the occurrence of more abundant ions produced by multiple cleavages. Detection limits were around 200 fmol (3 : 1 signal-to-noise ratio)."	2005	May	40	5	642-53	15751107	0
377	"Harvey, DJ"	A new charge-associated mechanism to account for the production of fragment ions in the high-energy CID spectra of fatty acids	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	"A new mechanism, termed a charge-assisted process, is proposed as an additional mechanism to the charge-remote process to account for ions of the [M - CnH2n+2] series found in the positive and negative high energy CID spectra of fatty acids and related compounds when ionized as closed-shell ([M - H]- or [M + X]+) species. The new mechanism is based on that commonly invoked to account for similar ions in the electron-impact spectra of derivatized fatty acids whereby the positive charge on the derivative abstracts a hydrogen atom from various positions of the alkyl chain to leave a radical that initiates a radical-induced cleavage of the chain. It is proposed that in the high energy CID spectra of closed-shell ions, similar hydrogen migrations occur but unpairing of electrons is avoided by charge transfer to the alkyl chain. This charge then initiates a concerted cleavage of the chain to give an allylic carbonium (positive ion spectrum) or carbanion (negative ion spectrum). The mechanism avoids the need to involve radicals or loss of hydrogen atoms from even-electron (closed shell) ions and provides a driving force for the reaction, namely, the formation of ions with a stabilized charge. An extension of the mechanism is also proposed to account for the formation of odd-electron ions from these compounds. The charge-assisted mechanism does not rule out the occurrence of other mechanisms that have been accepted for many years but provides an alternative process that can account for some spectral features which were difficult to explain earlier."	2005	Feb	16	2	280-90	15694778	0
378	"Harvey, DJ"	Ionization and fragmentation of N-linked glycans as silver adducts by electrospray mass spectrometry	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"[M+Ag]+ ions were produced by electrospray from neutral high-mannose, hybrid and complex N-linked glycans obtained from bovine ribonuclease, chicken egg glycoproteins, bovine fetuin and porcine thyroglobulin by the addition of silver nitrate to the electrospray solvent. Both singly and doubly charged ions were produced but, as the signals were split between the two silver isotopes, sensitivity was not as high as with the sodium adducts reported earlier. Collision-induced dissociation (CID) spectra were dominated by ions produced by glycosidic cleavages, mainly of the B- and Y-type. Internal cleavage ions involving both B and Y cleavages were very prominent but cross-ring fragments were generally of very low abundance or absent. Silver was very efficient at cleaving the glycosidic bonds, so much so that spectra tended to contain glycosidic ions at most possible combinations of the constituent monosaccharides."	2005		19	4	484-92	15655798	0
379	"Harvey, DJ"	Halogeno-substituted 2-aminobenzoic acid derivatives for negative ion fragmentation studies of N-linked carbohydrates	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"Negative ion electrospray mass spectra of high-mannose N-linked glycans derivatised with 2-aminobenzoic acids and ionised from solutions containing ammonium hydroxide gave prominent [M-H](-) ions accompanied by weaker [M-2H](2-) ions. Fragmentation of both types of ions gave prominent singly charged glycosidic cleavage ions containing the derivatised reducing terminus and ions from the non-reducing terminus that appeared to be products of cross-ring cleavages. Differentiation of these two groups of ions was conveniently achieved in a single spectrum by use of chloro- or bromo-substituted benzoic acids in order to label ions containing the derivative with an atom with a distinctive isotope pattern. Fragmentation of the doubly charged ions gave more abundant fragments, both singly and doubly charged, than did fragmentation of the singly charged ions, but information of chain branching was masked by the appearance of prominent ions produced by internal cleavages."	2005		19	3	397-400	15645501	0
380	"Harvey, DJ and Bousfield, GR"	Differentiation between sulphated and phosphated carbohydrates in low-resolution matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectra	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom		2005		19	2	287-8	15609366	0
381	"Harvey, DJ"	Analysis of carbohydrates and glycoconjugates by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry: An update covering the period 1999-2000	Mass Spectrom Rev	"This review describes the use of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry for the analysis of carbohydrates and glycoconjugates and continues coverage of the field from the previous review published in 1999 (D. J. Harvey, Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry of carbohydrates, 1999, Mass Spectrom Rev, 18:349-451) for the period 1999-2000. As MALDI mass spectrometry is acquiring the status of a mature technique in this field, there has been a greater emphasis on applications rather than to method development as opposed to the previous review. The present review covers applications to plant-derived carbohydrates, N- and O-linked glycans from glycoproteins, glycated proteins, mucins, glycosaminoglycans, bacterial glycolipids, glycosphingolipids, glycoglycerolipids and related compounds, and glycosides. Applications of MALDI mass spectrometry to the study of enzymes acting on carbohydrates (glycosyltransferases and glycosidases) and to the synthesis of carbohydrates, are also covered. (c) 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., Mass Spec Rev 25:595-662, 2006."	2006	Jul-Aug	25	4	595-662	16642463	0
382	"Harvey, DJ"	"A flying start to health promotion in remote north Queensland, Australia: the development of Royal Flying Doctor Service field days"	Rural Remote Health	"CONTEXT: The Royal Flying Doctor Service (Queensland Section), Australia, provides health services for remote populations across an area of approximately 600,000 km2. The challenge presented to the service was to provide effective health promotion as well as acute clinical services. ISSUE: This article describes the development of field days, an initiative based on a capacity building approach to health promotion. Field days have been conducted at station properties, national parks, remote tourist facilities, a roadhouse and country racecourse. They usually consist of a morning interactive workshop based on locally identified health topics followed by an afternoon clinic. A developmental approach has been adopted, with participant feedback from each field day and reflections by health staff informing future field day activities and adjustments in methods of delivery. Between November 2001 and August 2005, 726 adults and 248 children attended 53 field days conducted at 18 remote locations in north Queensland. Evaluation: Participants were asked to rate the overall usefulness, content and quality of the presentations/workshops on a scale from 1 (not useful/poor) to 10 (very useful/very good). Overall, feedback from participants was positive. The average scores were 9.1 for overall usefulness of the day and content of the sessions, and 9.2 for quality of the presentations. Field days demonstrate a flexible health promotion initiative based on a capacity building approach which is rated as useful and appropriate by participants. LESSONS LEARNED: The implementation of field days has highlighted the importance of building on community and organisational strengths as a means of overcoming skepticism about new services and approaches to health. Methods of delivery that are fun, non-threatening, practical, locally relevant, culturally appropriate and interactive work best. The development of field day packages containing workshop plans and resources facilitates flexibility and enables the program to be tailored to meet the needs of participants. Workforce planning and development have played a key role in reorienting existing services towards health promotion. Field days can inform the development of locally relevant health promotion initiatives based on a capacity building approach in other remote areas of Australia and internationally."	2006	Jan-Mar	6	1	485	16524344	0
383	"Haurum, JS"	"Recognition of carbohydrate by major histocompatibility complex class I-restricted, glycopeptide-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes"	J Exp Med	"Cytotoxic T cells (CTL) recognize short peptide epitopes presented by class I glycoproteins encoded by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). It is not yet known whether peptides containing posttranslationally modified amino acids can also be recognized by CTL. To address this issue, we have studied the immunogenicity and recognition of a glycopeptide carrying an O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) monosaccharide-substituted serine residue. This posttranslational modification is catalyzed by a recently described cytosolic glycosyltransferase. We show that glycosylation does not affect peptide binding to MHC class I and that glycopeptides can elicit a strong CTL response that is glycopeptide specific. Furthermore, glycopeptide recognition by cytotoxic T cells is dependent on the chemical structure of the glycan as well as its position within the peptide."	1994	Aug-01	180	2	739-44	8046349	0
384	"Haurum, JS"	Peptide anchor residue glycosylation: effect on class I major histocompatibility complex binding and cytotoxic T lymphocyte recognition	Eur J Immunol	"This study extends our previous observation that glycopeptides bind to class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules and elicit carbohydrate-specific CTL responses. The Sendai virus nucleoprotein wild-type (WT) peptide (FAPGNYPAL) binds H-2Db using the P5-Asn as an anchor. The peptide K2 carrying a P5 serine substitution did not bind Db. Surprisingly, glycosylation of the serine (K2-O-GlcNAc) with N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc), a novel cytosolic O-linked glycosylation, partially restored peptide binding to Db. We argue that the N-acetyl group of GlcNAc may fulfil the hydrogen bonding requirements of the Db pocket which normally accomodates P5-Asn. Glycosylation of the P5-Asn residue itself abrogated binding similar to K2, probably for steric reasons. The peptide K2-O-GlcNAc readily elicited Db-restricted cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), which did not cross-react with K2 or WT. However, all Db-restricted CTL raised against K2-O-GlcNAc cross-reacted strongly with another glycopeptide, K3-O-GlcNAc, where the GlcNAc substitution is on a neighboring P4-Ser. Furthermore, Db-restricted CTL clones raised against K2-O-GlcNAc or K3-O-GlcNAc displayed a striking TCR conservation. Our interpretation is that the carbohydrate of K2-O-GlcNAc not only mediates binding to Db, but also interacts with the TCR in such a way as to mimic K3-O-GlcNAc. This unusual example of molecular mimicry extends the known effects of peptide glycosylation from what we and others have previously reported: glycosylation may create a T cell neo-epitope, or, conversely, abrogate recognition. Alternatively, glycosylation may block peptide binding to MHC class I and finally, as reported here, restore binding, presumably through direct interaction of the carbohydrate with the MHC molecule."	1995	Dec	25	12	3270-6	8566011	0
385	"Hawrylowicz, CM"	Activated platelets express IL-1 activity	J Immunol	"Suspensions of washed human platelets express IL-1 activity after activation with agents such as thrombin, collagen, ADP, or epinephrine as judged by the ability of the platelet suspensions to support the growth of a T cell line, D10.G4.1, which exhibits a growth requirement for IL-1. Unactivated platelets express little IL-1 activity. The IL-1 activity expressed by activated platelets appears to be entirely associated with the platelet surface. No IL-1 activity was detected in supernatants derived from suspensions of activated platelets. A mAb specific for IL-1 beta inhibited 90% of the activity expressed by thrombin-activated platelets, whereas a mAb specific for IL-1 alpha inhibited approximately 20% of the activity. A control mAb was without an effect. These results indicate that activated platelets express surface-associated IL-1 activity. Platelet surface IL-1 may provide a mechanism for altering in an extremely localized and rapid manner the properties of IL-1 responsive cells with which platelets come in direct contact during processes of inflammation and vessel wall damage."	1989	Dec-15	143	12	4015-8	2592766	0
386	"Heman-Ackah, CA"	Experience with an assay for prostate-specific antigen and transrectal ultrasonography in the diagnosis of prostate cancer	Br J Urol	"OBJECTIVE: To assess the detection of prostate cancer using the Ciba Corning ACS 180 prostate-specific antigen (PSA) assay and transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS) in a district general hospital. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a preliminary study, the serum PSA level in 130 patients was measured using both the Ciba Corning and the Hybritech Tandem-R PSA assay and the results assessed using linear regression analysis. A further study comprised 204 consecutive patients who underwent TRUS and biopsy. The histology of the prostatic biopsies was analysed according to the pre-biopsy PSA level (Ciba Corning assay), digital rectal examination (DRE) and TRUS findings. RESULTS: The PSA levels measured using the Ciba Corning assay were about 50% higher than those using the Hybritech Tandem-R assay. Of 204 men who had TRUS and biopsy. 56 (28%) had detectable prostate cancer, but no patient with a PSA of < 6.0 ng/mL had. Five of 47 (11%), 21 of 83 (25%) and 30 of 65 (46%) patients with PSA levels in the range 6.1-15.15.1-30 and > 30 ng/mL, respectively, had cancer detected. When the DRE was negative, 18 of 111 (16%) patients had a positive biopsy, compared with 38 of 93 (41%) patients when the DRE was positive (P < 0.001). In men with a PSA level of 6.1-15.0 ng/mL, positive biopsies were found in 3% when the DRE was negative, compared with 27% when it was positive (P < 0.025). A TRUS abnormality was detected in 54 of 204 (26%) patients, of whom 25 (46%) had positive biopsies. Of these 54, there were 43 with hypoechoic lesions, of whom 22 (51%) had positive biopsies. The cancer detection rate was higher when both TRUS and DRE were positive (62%), with the highest detection rate (86%) occurring when the PSA level was also > 30.0 ng/mL. When the DRE was positive, cancer was detected in 21 of 34 (62%) patients with a positive TRUS, but only in 17 of 59 (29%) patients with a negative TRUS (P < 0.005). However, when the DRE was negative there was no significant difference in the cancer detection rates for TRUS-positive and TRUS-negative patients, where four of 20 and 14 of 91 (15%) patients were found to have cancer, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: The positive biopsy rates in this study were comparable with those from similar studies using other PSA assays. When the DRE was negative there was a low detection rate for cancer of 3% for men with PSA levels of 6.1-15.0 ng/mL. In patients with an elevated PSA level but a negative DRE, the positive biopsy rate for TRUS-negative patients did not differ from TRUS-positive patients, indicating the importance of random systematic biopsies."	1997	Mar	79	3	439-44	9117228	0
387	"Hennet, T"	"Genomic cloning and expression of three murine UDP-galactose: beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta1,3-galactosyltransferase genes"	J Biol Chem	"Based on the detection of expressed sequence tags that are similar to known galactosyltransferase sequences, we have isolated three novel UDP-galactose:beta-N-acetylglucosamine beta1, 3-galactosyltransferase (beta3GalT) genes from a mouse genomic library. The three genes, named beta3GalT-I, -II, and -III, encode type II transmembrane proteins of 326, 422, and 331 amino acids, respectively. The three proteins constitute a distinct subfamily as they do not share any sequence identity with other eucaryotic galactosyltransferases. Also, the entire protein-coding region of the three beta3GalT genes was contained in a single exon, which contrasts with the genomic organization of the beta1,4- and alpha1, 3-galactosyltransferase genes. The three beta3GalT genes were mainly expressed in brain tissue. The expression of the full-length murine genes as recombinant baculoviruses in insect cells revealed that the beta3GalT enzymes share the same acceptor specificity for beta-linked GlcNAc, although they differ in their Km for this acceptor and the donor UDP-Gal. The identification of beta3GalT genes emphasizes the structural diversity present in the galactosyltransferase gene family."	1998	Jan-02	273	1	58-65	9417047	0
388	"Herman, JH"	Evidence for a directional correspondence between eye movements and dream imagery in REM sleep	Sleep	"We examined the relationship between eye movement direction in REM sleep recorded by electrooculograph (EOG) and gaze direction in dream imagery. In a double-blind protocol, carefully screened and trained subjects were awakened subsequent to direct coupled EOG activity that was either predominantly horizontal or vertical. Following a target eye movement that fulfilled predetermined amplitude and directional criteria, a brief period of ocular quiescence was allowed to transpire before the subject was awakened. The dream narratives and EOG activity occurring prior to the REM awakenings were each reduced to a series of quantitatively scaled ratings. Analyses of variance demonstrated that when the confidence level of the experimenters' prediction is taken into account, statistically significant relationships exist between the number and direction of shifts of gaze in the dream report and scaled measurements of the corresponding EOG. When given dream narratives and the corresponding EOG recordings in sets of four, judges were unable to match them correctly better than by chance. However, in the above matching, judges significantly paired the dream narratives with EOG recordings that were in the same axis of gaze."	1984		7	1	52-63	6718925	0
389	"Hill, RM"	An investigation of recurrent pine oil poisoning in an infant by the use of gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric methods	J Pediatr	"An 18-month-old infant required six hospital admissions in a period of six months for episodes consisting of coughing, respiratory depression, hematemesis, coma, dehydration, and lesions about the mouth. A negative history of ingestion of toxins was repeatedly obtained from the family and two home inspection by the local Health Department failed to identify potential toxins. Metabolic work-up was entirely negative. Utilizing methods of GC-MS, metabolites of a-terpineol were isolated from infant urine on two admissions to the hospital. These metabolites were confirmed by mass spectrometry to be the same metabolites excreted by Sprague-Dawley rats injected with a-terpineol or pine oil. The child had no additional episodes after physical separation from the home environment."	1975	Jul	87	1	115-8	1151533	0
390	"Hill, BL"	Identification of the phosphorylation sites of clathrin light chain LCb	J Biol Chem	"Clathrin light chains, LCa and LCb, are products of two closely related genes whose mRNAs undergo differential splicing to result in at least four different light chain isoforms. The physiological significance of clathrin light chain diversity remains unclear. To date, the only evidence for a functional distinction of LCa and LCb is the preferential phosphorylation of LCb, which takes place at serine residues and is mediated by coated vesicle-associated casein kinase II. As a first step toward determining the function of light chain diversity, we have mapped the in vitro phosphorylation sites on LCb. We use [32P]ATP to phosphorylate LCb within coated vesicles, followed by sequencing of 32P-labeled chymotryptic peptides thereof, to identify serine residues at positions 11 and 13 as the phosphorylation sites. We find that phosphorylation of LCb within coated vesicles can be inhibited by four monoclonal antibodies specific for different epitopes of the clathrin light chains."	1988	Apr-25	263	12	5499-501	3128543	0
391	"Hill, JM"	In vivo epinephrine reactivation of ocular herpes simplex virus type 1 in the rabbit is correlated to a 370-base-pair region located between the promoter and the 5' end of the 2.0 kilobase latency-associated transcript	J Virol	"A rabbit ocular model of epinephrine-induced herpes simplex virus type 1 reactivation was employed to study the effect of a deletion in the latency-associated transcript domain. A viral construct derived from 17Syn+, designated 17deltaSty, has a deletion of 370 nucleotides between genomic positions 118880 and 119250. 17deltaSty has been shown to reactivate with wild-type virus kinetics from explants of trigeminal ganglia from latently infected mice. To determine the behavior of this mutant in an in vivo, inducible reactivation system, rabbit corneas were infected with 17Syn+, 17deltaSty, or its rescuant, 17detlaSty-Res. After viral latency was established, transcorneal epinephrine iontophoresis was performed. The rabbits latently infected with 17deltaSty exhibited a significantly reduced ability to undergo adrenergically induced reactivation, i.e., viral shedding in the tears, compared with rabbits infected with either 17Syn+ or 17deltaSty-Res. However, quantitative PCR demonstrated similar numbers of viral genomes in the trigeminal ganglia from rabbits latently infected with all three viruses, and all three viruses reactivated in vitro with wild-type kinetics in an explant cocultivation assay. These studies indicate that the 370-bp region deleted in the 17deltaSty construct plays a role in epinephrine-induced reactivation."	1996	Oct	70	10	7270-4	8794381	0
392	"Hill, JM"	A 437-base-pair deletion at the beginning of the latency-associated transcript promoter significantly reduced adrenergically induced herpes simplex virus type 1 ocular reactivation in latently infected rabbits	J Virol	"In this study we used a herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) deletion mutant to identify a segment of the genome necessary for epinephrine-induced reactivation in the rabbit eye model of herpetic recurrent disease. In HSV-1 latently infected neural tissue, the only abundant viral products are the latency-associated transcripts (LATs). At least one promoter of LAT has been identified, and mutations in the LAT domain have been used to investigate HSV-1 reactivation. We used an ocular rabbit model of epinephrine-induced HSV-1 reactivation to study the effects of deleting a 437-bp region beginning 796 bp upstream of the LAT CAP site. Specifically, the 437-bp deletion is located between genomic positions 118006 and 118443 of the parent 17Syn+, and the construct is designated 17 delta S/N. This region also controls a portion of the genome encoding two transcripts (1.1 and 1.8 kb) from the LAT domain. A rescuant, 17 delta S/N-Res, was constructed from 17 delta S/N. Following ocular infection, all three viruses produced similar acute dendritic lesions in rabbits. Five weeks after infection, rabbits received transcorneal iontophoresis of epinephrine. The parent, 17Syn+, and the rescuant, 17 delta S/N-Res, underwent a high frequency of HSV-1 ocular reactivation as determined by recovery of infectious virus in the tear film. Rabbits infected with 17 delta S/N had a significantly lower frequency of ocular reactivation. Analysis of the trigeminal ganglia from all three groups of latently infected rabbits revealed (i) similar amounts of HSV DNA (genomic equivalents), (ii) accumulation of 2.0- and 1.45-kb LATs, and (iii) explant reactivation at the same high frequency. Therefore, these studies indicate that the 437-bp deleted region in 17 delta S/N is essential for epinephrine-induced reactivation and could implicate the 1.1- and 1.8-kb transcripts in the mechanisms controlling HSV-1 reactivation."	1997	Sep	71	9	6555-9	9261376	0
393	"Hitchen, PG"	Orientation of sugars bound to the principal C-type carbohydrate-recognition domain of the macrophage mannose receptor	Biochem J	"The extracellular region of the macrophage mannose receptor, a protein involved in the innate immune response, contains eight C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains (CRDs). The fourth of these domains, CRD-4, is central to ligand binding by the receptor, and binds mannose, fucose and N-acetylglucosamine by direct ligation to Ca2+. Site-directed mutagenesis combined with NMR and molecular modelling have been used to determine the orientation of monosaccharides bound to CRD-4. Two resonances in the 1H NMR spectrum of CRD-4 that are perturbed on sugar binding are identified as a methyl proton from a leucine side chain in the core of the domain and the H-2 proton of a histidine close to the predicted sugar-binding site. The effects of mutagenesis of this histidine residue, a nearby isoleucine residue and a tyrosine residue previously shown to stack against sugars bound to CRD-4 show the absolute orientation of sugars in the binding site. N-Acetylglucosamine binds to CRD-4 of the mannose receptor in the orientation seen in crystal structures of the CRD of rat liver mannose-binding protein. Mannose binds to CRD-4 in the orientation seen in the CRD of rat serum mannose-binding protein and is rotated by 180 degrees relative to GlcNAc bound to CRD-4. Interaction of the O-methyl group and C-1 of alpha-methyl Fuc with the tyrosine residue accounts for the strong preference of CRD-4 for this anomer of fucose. Both anomers of fucose bind to CRD-4 in the orientation seen in rat liver mannose-binding protein."	1998	Aug-01	333 ( Pt 3)		601-8	9677318	0
394	"Hoja-Lukowicz, D"	Characterization of the oligosaccharide component of microsomal beta-glucuronidase from rat liver	Biochimie	"The oligosaccharides of microsomal beta-glucuronidase were analysed by gel permeation and weak anion exchange chromatography following hydrazine release. N-linked glycans, constituted 80% of the total glycan pool and were mainly of the tri- and biantennary complex type with or without core and arm fucose. The major oligosaccharide, that comprised 30.6% of all the species analysed, was structurally identified by reagent array analysis method and found to be a triantennary complex structure, Galbeta1,4GlcNAcbeta1,2Manalpha1,6(3)(Galbeta1,4GlcNAcbeta1,4(Galbeta1,4Gl cNAcbeta1,2) Manalpha1,3(6))Manbeta1,4GlcNAcbeta1,4 GlcNAc. O-Linked glycans comprised 20% of the total glycan pool, the major species being Galbeta1,3GalNAc. All of the N- and O-linked glycans were charged. Most of the negative charge was due to sialic acid (85.0%) with the remainder being phosphate present as phosphomonoesters (7.3%) and phosphodiesters (5%). This is the first report of O-linked carbohydrate chains in microsomal beta-glucuronidase. The presence of O-linked glycans and branched N-linked glycans in a microsomal enzyme, in relation to the current view of glycosyltransferase compartmentalization in the Golgi is discussed."	2004	Jun	86	6	363-72	15358052	0
395	"Holland, EC"	Rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor lacks a cleavable NH2-terminal signal sequence	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"Two cDNA clones encoding the predominant form of the asialoglycoprotein receptor from rat liver (the major rat hepatic lectin; RHL-1) were identified by screening a rat liver cDNA library with a mixed oligonucleotide probe 35 nucleotides long. One clone was a nearly full-length copy of the mRNA for RHL-1, while the other was shortened at both ends. The sequences of these clones demonstrate that this transmembrane receptor is not synthesized with an NH2-terminal signal sequence. The only proteolytic processing occurring in the biosynthesis of RHL-1 is the removal of the NH2-terminal initiator methionine residue. Insertion of RHL-1 into the membrane is postulated to occur by the recognition of the internal transmembrane region as a signal sequence."	1984	Dec	81	23	7338-42	6095287	0
396	"Holland, EC and Drickamer, K"	Signal recognition particle mediates the insertion of a transmembrane protein which has a cytoplasmic NH2 terminus	J Biol Chem	"The mechanism by which rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor (rat hepatic lectin, RHL) is inserted into membranes has been investigated. RHL is a prototype for transmembrane proteins which are oriented with their NH2 termini in the cytoplasm and their COOH termini outside the cell. Such transmembrane proteins are synthesized without cleavable NH2-terminal signal sequences. An in vitro translation system has been developed in which RHL is translated from RNA produced in a bacteriophage SP6 in vitro transcription system. RHL produced in this way can be inserted cotranslationally in the correct orientation into dog pancreas microsomes. This insertion process has been shown to be dependent on the signal recognition particle and its receptor (the docking protein) in the microsomal membranes. A detailed mechanism for the insertion of this type of transmembrane protein into the lipid bilayer is proposed."	1986	Jan-25	261	3	1286-92	3003063	0
397	"Homans, SW"	Solution conformation of the biantennary N-linked oligosaccharide of human serotransferrin using 1H NMR nuclear Overhauser effect measurements	FEBS Lett	"The conformation in solution of the biantennary complex type oligosaccharide unit derived from human serotransferrin has been investigated using 1H-1H Nuclear Overhauser Effect (NOE) measurements at 300 MHz. From quantitation of the NOE, the alpha(1-3) antenna is shown to exist in a preferred solution conformation with respect to the mannosyl-chitobiose core. The flexibility of the alpha(1-6) arm, together with the absence of NOE data between this arm and the core, indicates that, in contrast to the alpha(1-3) arm the alpha(1-6) arm has no preferred conformation with respect to the core."	1982	Dec-27	150	2	503-6	7160490	0
398	"Homans, SW"	The use of two-dimensional correlated spectroscopy to obtain new assignments in the high-resolution 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of the biantennary complex oligosaccharide isolated from human serum transferrin by hydrazinolysis	Biochim Biophys Acta	"The asialo biantennary complex type oligosaccharide from human serum transferrin was isolated by hydrazinolysis, a method which results in the quantitative release of the intact oligosaccharide free of all amino acids. The 1H-NMR chemical shifts of the previously assigned anomeric and H-2 protons from the peripheral residues of the glycopeptide are identical to the corresponding values for the reduced oligosaccharide. The chemical shift of GlcNAc-1 H-1 proton in the reduced oligosaccharide was assigned by selective deuteration. Proton J connectivities were determined using two-dimensional 1H-1H correlated high resolution NMR spectroscopy. Twelve new assignments were made within the central envelope of the NMR spectrum and a further six were tentatively proposed. The ability to assign proton resonances in this way should allow further conformational studies of the oligosaccharide using nuclear Overhauser effects between the relevant assigned protons on different saccharide residues (Homans, S.W., Dwek, R.A., Fernandes, D.L. and Rademacher, T.W. (1982) FEBS Lett. 150, 503-506)."	1983	Oct-18	760	2	256-61	6626573	0
399	"Homans, SW"	Multiple-step relayed correlation spectroscopy: sequential resonance assignments in oligosaccharides	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"A general property of the high-resolution proton NMR spectra of oligosaccharides is the appearance of low-field well-resolved resonances corresponding to the anomeric (H1) and H2 protons. The remaining skeletal protons resonate in the region 3-4 ppm, giving rise to an envelope of poorly resolved resonances. Assignments can be made from the H1 and H2 protons to their J-coupled neighbors (H2 and H3) within this main envelope by using 1H-1H correlated spectroscopy. However, the tight coupling (J congruent to delta) between further protons results in poor spectral dispersion with consequent assignment ambiguities. We describe here three-step two-dimensional relayed correlation spectroscopy and show how it can be used to correlate the resolved anomeric (H1) and H2 protons with remote (H4, H5) protons directly through a linear network of couplings using sequential magnetization transfer around the oligosaccharide rings. Resonance assignments are then obtained by inspection of cross-peaks that appear in well-resolved regions of the two-dimensional spectrum. This offers a general solution to the assignment problem in oligosaccharides and, importantly, these assignments will subsequently allow for the three-dimensional solution conformation to be determined by using one-dimensional and two-dimensional nuclear Overhauser experiments."	1984	Oct	81	20	6286-9	6593701	0
400	"Homans, SW"	The analysis of coupling networks in a complex oligosaccharide mixture derived from the Fc region of rabbit immunoglobulin G using 1H-1H correlated NMR spectroscopy combined with double quantum NMR spectroscopy	Biochim Biophys Acta	"In glycoproteins, even for those containing a single glycosylation site, diversity is manifest in the occurrence of a family of structurally-related yet distinct oligosaccharides. To date this 'microheterogeneity' is universal in mammalian glycoproteins. A method is described, using 1H-1H correlated and double quantum nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy, for the assignment of proton resonances within a mixture of complex-type oligosaccharides derived from the Fc region of rabbit immunoglobulin G. The ability to assign resonances in heterogeneous populations will be of importance in the chemical shift analysis of the 1H-NMR spectra of glycopeptides since these cannot generally be separated on the basis of their carbohydrate sequence. The resulting assignments will be necessary before conformational studies on glycopeptides using nuclear Overhauser effects can be made."	1984	Mar-22	798	1	78-83	6704424	0
401	"Homans, SW"	Conformational transitions in N-linked oligosaccharides	Biochemistry	"An assignment strategy involving 1H-1H correlated spectroscopy (COSY), relayed correlation spectroscopy (RECSY), nuclear Overhauser effect spectroscopy (NOESY), and triple quantum filtered correlated spectroscopy (TQCOSY) is described for six related N-linked oligosaccharides. These are of three ""types"", i.e., complex, bisected complex, and oligomannose. Using spin-spin coupling constant data derived from these assignments, together with semiempirical quantum mechanical energy calculations, we have examined the rotamer distributions at the Man alpha 1-6Man beta-linkage in each structure, and additionally at the Man alpha 1-6Man alpha-linkage in oligomannose oligosaccharides. We show that while several primary sequence differences are ""passive"", certain key residues modulate the orientation of the alpha 1-6 arms. These residues may be proximal or distal to the site of the conformational change. There is no direct correlation between these perturbations and the oligosaccharide type. These data are discussed in terms of the proposed recognition function of oligosaccharides in biological systems."	1986	Oct-07	25	20	6342-50	3790526	0
402	"Homans, SW"	Structure and dynamics in oligomannose-type oligosaccharides	Biochemistry	"Using a combination of 1H NMR nuclear Overhauser effect measurements, molecular orbital calculations, and molecular dynamics simulations, we have determined the tertiary structure and dynamic properties of the oligomannose oligosaccharide Man alpha 6(Man alpha 3)Man alpha 6(Man alpha 3)Man beta 4GlcNAc beta 4GLcNAc. While the calculated potential surfaces for the majority of the glycosidic linkages could be described by a single deep potential well, similar calculations for the Man alpha 1-6Man alpha and Man alpha 1-6Man beta linkages described a diffuse, shallow well, suggesting that a larger degree of flexibility exists about the latter. These conclusions are supported by the results of molecular dynamics simulations, which suggest that the NMR data should be interpreted in terms of a degree of flexibility about the Man alpha 1-6Man beta and Man alpha 1-6Man alpha linkages. In contrast, a similar series of investigations suggests that the conformation of the Man alpha 1-6Man beta linkage in Man alpha 2Man6(Man alpha 2Man alpha 3)Man alpha 6 (Man alpha 2Man alpha 2Man alpha 3)Man beta 4GlcNAc beta 4GlcNAc is more restricted, resulting in an overall structure that is ""restrained""."	1987	Oct-20	26	21	6649-55	3427033	0
403	"Homans, SW"	Solution conformations of N-linked oligosaccharides	Biochemistry		1987	Oct-20	26	21	6571-8	3322384	0
404	"Homans, SW"	Tertiary structure in N-linked oligosaccharides	Biochemistry	"Distance constraints derived from two-dimensional nuclear Overhauser effect measurements have been used to define the orientation of the Man alpha 1-3Man beta linkage in seven different N-linked oligosaccharides, all containing the common pentasaccharide core Man alpha 1-6(Man alpha 1-3)Man beta 1-4GlcNAc beta 1-4GlcNAc. Conformational invariance of the Man alpha 1-3Man beta linkage was found for those structures bearing substitutions on the Man alpha 1-3Man beta antenna. However, the presence of either a GlcNAc residue in the beta 1-4 linkage to Man beta (""bisecting GlcNAc"") or a xylose residue in the beta 1-2 linkage to Man beta of the trimannosyl core was found to generate conformational transitions that were similar. These transitions were accompanied by characteristic chemical shift perturbations of proton resonances in the vicinity of the Man alpha 1-3Man beta linkage. Molecular orbital energy calculations suggest that the conformational transition between the unsubstituted and substituted cores arises from energetic constraints in the vicinity of the Man alpha 1-3Man beta linkage, rather than specific long-range interactions. These data taken together with our previous results on the Man alpha 1-6Man beta linkage [Homans, S. W., Dwek R. A., Boyd, J., Mahmoudian, M., Richards, W. G., & Rademacher, T. W. (1986) Biochemistry 25, 6342] allow us to discuss the consequences of the modulation of oligosaccharide solution conformations."	1987	Oct-06	26	20	6553-60	3427025	0
405	"Homans, SW"	A method for the rapid assignment of 1H NMR spectra of oligosaccharides using homonuclear Hartmann-Hahn spectroscopy	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"An NMR method is described, based on coherence transfer in the rotating frame, which allows for the rapid determination of proton resonance assignments in oligosaccharides. The composite one-dimensional spectrum of the oligosaccharide is decomposed into a subset of spectra that are derived from individual monosaccharide residues. Proton resonance assignments can be obtained from these subspectra by inspection of the multiplicities of the component resonances and by spectral simulation. The method is shown to have particular value in the assignment of proton resonances derived from primary sequence branch-point residues, which often have complex spin-coupling patterns. Other advantages of this method over conventional techniques are discussed."	1987	Mar	84	5	1202-5	3469662	0
406	"Homans, SW"	Complete structure of the glycosyl phosphatidylinositol membrane anchor of rat brain Thy-1 glycoprotein	Nature	"Glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchors have recently been identified as alternatives to hydrophobic amino acid sequences for the attachment of a variety of eukaryotic cell surface molecules to the lipid bilayer. In single cell eukaryotes the GPI group appears to be the predominant form of membrane attachment, and in vertebrates a substantial minority of molecules have this anchor including cell surface hydrolytic enzymes, antigens and cell adhesion molecules. Analysis of different GPI anchors suggests they share common structural features including linkage to the COOH group of the terminal amino acid via ethanolamine phosphate, the presence of phosphatidylinositol lipid and a glycan between the bridging ethanolamine phosphate and the lipid. In the case of the Trypanosoma brucie variant surface glycoprotein (VSG) the full structure of the GPI anchor has been determined and this provides a prototype for comparison with other molecules. We now report the structure of the GPI anchor of rat brain Thy-1 glycoprotein. It has an identical backbone to the VSG anchor but shows significant differences in side chain moieties."	1988	May-19	333	6170	269-72	2897081	0
407	"Homans, SW"	Solution structure of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol membrane anchor glycan of Trypanosoma brucei variant surface glycoprotein	Biochemistry	"The average solution conformation of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) membrane anchor of Trypanosoma brucei variant surface glycoprotein (VSG) has been determined by using a combination of two-dimensional 1H-1H NMR methods together with molecular orbital calculations and restrained molecular dynamics simulations. This allows the generation of a model to describe the orientation of the glycan with respect to the membrane. This shows that the glycan exists in an extended configuration along the plane of the membrane and spans an area of 600 A2, which is similar to the cross-sectional area of a monomeric N-terminal VSG domain. Taken together, these observations suggest a possible space-filling role for the GPI anchor that may maintain the integrity of the VSG coat. The potential importance of the GPI glycan as a chemotherapeutic target is discussed in light of these observations."	1989	Apr-04	28	7	2881-7	2525919	0
408	"Hooker, SP"	The California active aging community grant program: translating science into practice to promote physical activity in older adults	Ann Behav Med	"BACKGROUND: Attempts to study the translation of evidence-based physical activity interventions in community settings are scarce. PURPOSE: This project was an investigation of whether 13 diverse local lead agencies could effectively implement a choice-based, telephone-assisted physical activity promotion program for older adults based on intervention models proven efficacious in research settings. METHODS: At baseline, participants developed their own physical activity programs through an individualized planning session based on preference, health status, readiness to change, and available community resources. Thereafter, participants received regular telephone calls over a 1-year period from a trained staff member or volunteer support buddy. Additional program components consisted of health education workshops, newsletters, and group-based physical activities. Self-report data on caloric expenditure due to all and moderate or greater intensity physical activities were collected from 447 participants (M age = 68 +/- 8.6 years). RESULTS: A significant increase (p < or = .0001) from baseline to midintervention and intervention endpoint was observed for total weekly caloric expenditure (Mdn change = 644-707 kcal/week) and moderate or greater weekly caloric expenditure (Mdn change = 149-265 kcal/week), as well as for weekly physical activity duration and frequency. These changes were observed in participants across all sites. CONCLUSIONS: The increases in weekly caloric expenditure were commensurate with findings from several previous randomized clinical trials. The utilization of community agency staff and volunteers receiving basic training to implement essential program components proved feasible. Very favorable levels of program satisfaction expressed by community staff, volunteer support buddies, and participants, combined with the significant increases in physical activity, warrant further dissemination of the intervention model."	2005	Jun	29	3	155-65	15946109	0
409	"Horning, MG"	"Metabolism of N,2-dimethyl-2-phenylsuccinimide (methsuximide) by the epoxide-diol pathway in rat, guinea pig and human"	Res Commun Chem Pathol Pharmacol		1973	Sep	6	2	565-78	4750102	0
410	"Horning, MG"	Metabolism of 2-ethyl-2-methylsuccinimide (ethosuximide) in the rat and human	Drug Metab Dispos		1973	May-Jun	1	3	569-76	4149451	0
411	"Horning, MG"	The use of gass chromatography-mass spectrometry methods in perinatal pharmacology	Adv Biochem Psychopharmacol		1973		7		113-24	4742802	0
412	"Houzelstein, D"	Phylogenetic analysis of the vertebrate galectin family	Mol Biol Evol	"Galectins form a family of structurally related carbohydrate binding proteins (lectins) that have been identified in a large variety of metazoan phyla. They are involved in many biological processes such as morphogenesis, control of cell death, immunological response, and cancer. To elucidate the evolutionary history of galectins and galectin-like proteins in chordates, we have exploited three independent lines of evidence: (i) location of galectin encoding genes (LGALS) in the human genome; (ii) exon-intron organization of galectin encoding genes; and (iii) sequence comparison of carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs) of chordate galectins. Our results suggest that a duplication of a mono-CRD galectin gene gave rise to an original bi-CRD galectin gene, before or early in chordate evolution. The N-terminal and C-terminal CRDs of this original galectin subsequently diverged into two different subtypes, defined by exon-intron structure (F4-CRD and F3-CRD). We show that all vertebrate mono-CRD galectins known to date belong to either the F3- or F4- subtype. A sequence of duplication and divergence events of the different galectins in chordates is proposed."	2004	Jul	21	7	1177-87	14963092	0
413	"Hsueh, EC"	The rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor polypeptide must be inserted into a microsome to achieve its active conformation	J Biol Chem	Affinity chromatography on galactose-Sepharose has been utilized to demonstrate that rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor synthesized in vitro in a reticulocyte lysate system is capable of binding carbohydrate ligand only when dog pancreas microsomes are present during translation. Analysis of receptor isolated from tunicamycin-treated rat hepatocytes indicates that glycosylation is not necessary for receptor activity. Genetically engineered receptor derivatives in which the natural membrane anchor is either deleted entirely or replaced with a cleavable signal sequence derived from dog preproinsulin have been used to demonstrate that: (a) inactive receptor made in the absence of membranes does not result from incorrect nucleation of folding around the hydrophobic portion of the polypeptide which is normally buried in the membrane and (b) the carbohydrate-binding domain of the receptor does not need to be tethered to the luminal side of the membrane to fold correctly. These results suggest that factors within the lumen of the microsomes are essential to establish the native conformation of the binding domain.	1986	Apr-15	261	11	4940-7	3082873	0
414	"Hughes, RC"	Cell surface molecules involved in fibronectin-mediated adhesion. A study using specific antisera	Eur J Cell Biol	"Attachment and spreading of baby hamster kidney (BHK) fibroblasts to fibronectin-coated surfaces can be inhibited by antibodies, and the (Fab) 2 fragments, prepared against the cells. The antibodies reacted specifically with ricin-binding glycoproteins of the cell surface, the major components having molecular weights of 130-140 K. The antibodies reacted also with mouse fibroblasts (L-cells) and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-cells and inhibited their fibronectin-mediated adhesion to inert surfaces. Antisera raised against material isolated from the underside of BHK cells spread out on fibronectin-coated substrata using a cleavable, photolabile heterobifunctional cross-linking reagent (Aplin et al. Exptl. Cell Res. (1981) 134, 488-494) also affected the interactions of cells with fibronectin-coated surfaces. The antibodies stained the periphery of BHK cells and L-cells in a discontinuous periodic manner and immunoprecipitated as a major component a low molecular weight (approximately 47 K) glycoprotein from cell extracts. These results indicate that different specific antisera modify cell-substratum adhesion, probably by interacting with different cell surface components. The properties of multiple factors involved in the attachment and spreading of cells to suitably adhesive substrata are discussed."	1981	Dec	26	1	198-207	7327179	0
415	"Hunnam, V"	Ionization and fragmentation of neutral and acidic glycosphingolipids with a Q-TOF mass spectrometer fitted with a MALDI ion source	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	"This paper reports the use of a quadrupole time-of-flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometer fitted with a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) ion source for the analysis of neutral and acidic glycosphingolipids. All compounds gave strong [M + Na]+ ions with 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid as the matrix, with no loss of sensitivity with increasing mass as was observed from the corresponding ions produced by electrospray. Neutral glycosphingolipids showed negligible in-source fragmentation but sialylated compounds fragmented by loss of sialic acid. However, these losses were not accompanied by unfocused post-source-decay ions as observed with MALDI-reflectron-TOF instruments. The MS/MS spectra were almost identical to those obtained by electrospray. Fragmentation of all compounds was mainly by glycosidic cleavage to give ions, both with and without the ceramide moiety, which defined the carbohydrate chain sequence. Weak ions which defined the sphingosine chain length and abundant ions, produced by loss of the acyl chain, were present when this chain contained a 2-hydroxy group. The technique was applied to the identification of ceramide-trihexosides present in tissues from mice genetically modified to model one of the glycolipid storage diseases (Fabry disease)."	2001	Nov	12	11	1220-5	11720398	0
416	"Iobst, ST"	Binding of sugar ligands to Ca(2+)-dependent animal lectins. I. Analysis of mannose binding by site-directed mutagenesis and NMR	J Biol Chem	"The Ca(2+)-dependent carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) of rat serum mannose-binding protein has been subjected to site-directed mutagenesis to determine the importance of individual residues in ligation of mannose and related sugars. The effects of the mutations were assessed by direct binding assays, competition binding studies, partial proteolysis, and NMR analysis of sugar-CRD titrations. As suggested by the crystal structure of the mannose-binding CRD complexed with oligosaccharide ligand, asparagine and glutamic acid residues that interact with hydroxyl groups 3 and 4 of the sugar, as well as with one of the two bound Ca2+, are critical for ligand binding. In addition, the beta-carbon of His189 contributes substantially to the binding affinity, apparently through a van der Waals contact with C-4 of the sugar ligand. van der Waals contacts between the imidazole ring of His189 and the 2 hydroxyl group of mannose, and between Ile207 and C-6 of mannose, observed in the crystal structure, contribute less to stability of the ligand complex. The effects of changes at positions 189 and 207 on the ability of the CRD to distinguish between alpha-and beta-methyl L-fucosides suggest that fucose may bind in an alternative orientation compared to the arrangement originally proposed based on the mannose-CRD complex."	1994	Jun-03	269	22	15505-11	8195194	0
417	"Iobst, ST and Drickamer, K"	Binding of sugar ligands to Ca(2+)-dependent animal lectins. II. Generation of high-affinity galactose binding by site-directed mutagenesis	J Biol Chem	"Changes have been introduced into the Ca(2+)-dependent carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) of rat serum mannose-binding protein by site-directed mutagenesis to model the binding sites of homologous galactose-binding CRDs. Binding assays reveal that galactose-binding activity nearly identical to that of the CRD from the asialoglycoprotein receptor can be introduced into the mannose-binding site by 3 single amino acid changes and insertion of a segment of 5 amino acids. Separate changes are required to establish high-affinity binding to galactose and create high selectivity by exclusion of mannose from the binding site. The mutagenesis studies and NMR analysis of sugar-CRD titrations demonstrate that an important component of high-affinity galactose binding is interaction between the B face of the sugar and tryptophan. The binding properties of the C-type CRD from the cartilage proteoglycan, aggrecan, can also be modeled based on the mannose-binding CRD frame-work. This lower affinity binding site involves stacking of a phenylalanine residue against the sugar ligand."	1994	Jun-03	269	22	15512-9	8195195	0
418	"Iobst, ST and Drickamer, K"	Selective sugar binding to the carbohydrate recognition domains of the rat hepatic and macrophage asialoglycoprotein receptors	J Biol Chem	"Asialoglycoprotein receptors on the surfaces of both hepatocytes and peritoneal macrophages bind terminal galactose residues of desialylated glycoproteins and mediate endocytosis and eventual degradation of these ligands. The hepatic receptor binds oligosaccharides with terminal N-acetylgalactosamine residues more tightly than ligands with terminal galactose residues, but the macrophage receptor shows no such differential binding affinity. Carbohydrate recognition domains from the macrophage receptor and the major subunit of the hepatic receptor have been expressed in a bacterial system and have been shown to retain the distinct binding selectivities of the receptors from which they derive. Binding of a series of N-acyl derivatives of galactosamine suggests that the 2-substituent of these sugars interacts with the surface of the hepatic receptor with highest affinity binding observed for the N-propionyl derivative. Chimeric sugar-binding domains have been used to identify three regions of the hepatic receptor that are essential for establishing selectivity for N-acetylgalactosamine over galactose. Based on these results and the orientation of N-acetylgalactosamine when bound to an homologous galactose-binding mutant of rat serum mannose-binding protein, a fourth region likely to interact with N-acetylgalactosamine has been identified and probed by site-directed mutagenesis. The results of these studies define a binding pocket for the 2-substituent of N-acetylgalactosamine in the hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor."	1996	Mar-22	271	12	6686-93	8636087	0
419	"Iourin, O"	The identification of abnormal glycoforms of serum transferrin in carbohydrate deficient glycoprotein syndrome type I by capillary zone electrophoresis	Glycoconj J	"One of the biochemical characteristics of carbohydrate deficient glycoprotein syndromes is the presence of abnormal glycoforms in serum transferrin. Both glycoform heterogeneity and variable site occupancy may, in principle, lead to the generation of a range of glycoforms which contain different numbers of sialic acid residues, and therefore variable amounts of negative charge. Capillary zone electrophoresis was used to resolve the glycoforms of normal human serum transferrin and also of a set of glycoforms which were prepared by digesting the sugars on the intact glycoprotein with sialidase. The sugars on the intact glycoprotein were also modified by a series of exoglycosidase enzymes to produce a series of neutral glycoforms which were-also analysed by capillary zone electrophoresis. The oligosaccharide population of human serum transferrin was analysed by a series of mixed exoglycosidase digests on the released glycan pool and quantified using a novel HPLC strategy. Transferrin was isolated from carbohydrate deficient glycoprotein syndromes type I serum and both the intact glycoforms and released sugars were resolved and quantified. The data presented here confirm the presence of a hexa-, penta- and tetra-sialoforms of human serum transferrin in both normal and carbohydrate deficient glycoprotein syndrome type I serum samples. Consistent with previous reports carbohydrate deficient glycoprotein syndrome type I transferrin also contained a di-sialoform, representing a glycoform in which one of the two N-glycosylation sites is unoccupied, and a non-glycosylated form where both remain unoccupied. This study demonstrates that capillary zone electrophoresis can be used to resolve quantitatively both sialylated and neutral complex type glycoforms, suggesting a rapid diagnostic test for the carbohydrate deficient glycoprotein syndromes group of diseases."	1996	Dec	13	6	1031-42	8981095	0
420	"Isenberg, DA"	Galactosylation of IgG associated oligosaccharides	Lancet		1988	Jul-30	2	8605	288	2899285	0
421	"Jackson, WR and Dwek, RA"	On the contribution of tryptophan to the affinity and specificity of anti-dinitrophenyl antibodies	Mol Immunol		1981	Jun	18	6	499-506	7311980	0
422	"Jackson, WR"	Antibody specificity: a 270-MHz hydrogen-1 nuclear magnetic resonance study of the binding of dinitrophenyl compounds to the VL dimer of protein 315	Biochemistry		1981	Apr-14	20	8	2339-45	7236605	0
423	"Jackson, AP"	Clathrin light chains contain brain-specific insertion sequences and a region of homology with intermediate filaments	Nature	The primary structures of four bovine clathrin light chains have been determined. Light chains LCa and LCb are homologous proteins encoded by different genes. In the brain the messenger RNA from these genes undergoes differential splicing to yield proteins having centrally inserted brain-specific sequences. A potentially alpha-helical region of the clathrin light chains shows homology with intermediate filament proteins.	1987	Mar 12-18	326	6109	154-9	3821891	0
424	"Jacquemin, M"	Variable region heavy chain glycosylation determines the anticoagulant activity of a factor VIII antibody	J Thromb Haemost	"BACKGROUND: N-glycosylation occurs in the variable region of about 10% of antibodies but the role of carbohydrate at this location is still poorly understood. OBJECTIVES: We investigated the function of N-glycosylation in the variable region of the heavy chain of a human monoclonal antibody, mAb-LE2E9, that partially inhibits factor VIII (FVIII) activity during coagulation. METHODS AND RESULTS: Enzymatic deglycosylation indicated that the oligosaccharides do not determine the affinity of the antibody but enhance its FVIII neutralizing activity. A mutant antibody lacking the N-glycosylation site in the variable region of the heavy chain inhibited FVIII activity by up to 40%, while inhibition by the native antibody was 80%. To evaluate the physiological effect of such a FVIII inhibition, we investigated the ability of the mutant antibody devoid of N-glycosylation in the variable region to prevent thrombosis in mice with a strong prothombotic phenotype resulting from a type II deficiency mutation in the heparin binding site of antithrombin. Despite its moderate inhibition of FVIII activity, the mutant antibody significantly prevented thrombosis in treated animals. We also carried out glycan analysis of native and mutant antibodies. CONCLUSIONS: Modification of glycosylation in the variable region of antibodies contributes to the diversity of FVIII type II inhibition possibly by steric hindrance of the active site of FVIII by glycans, and may provide a novel strategy to modulate the functional activity of therapeutic antibodies."	2006	May	4	5	1047-55	16689758	635
425	"Jaques, AJ"	"The glycosylation of Bowes melanoma tissue plasminogen activator: lectin mapping, reaction with anti-L2/HNK-1 antibodies and the presence of sulphated/glucuronic acid containing glycans"	Biochem J	"The glycosylation of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) obtained from the Bowes melanoma cell line was re-examined using methods of serial lectin affinity chromatography coupled with Bio-Gel P-4 gel filtration chromatography and exoglycosidase sequencing. This study clarified an earlier discrepancy in the literature and confirmed that the major complex N-linked glycans on Bowes t-PA that carry sialic acid as their sole charged group are bi-antennary, core fucosylated, with terminal N-acetylgalactosamine residues. We also report the characterization of a series of related and previously unidentified sialylated glycans. Further we show that Bowes t-PA expresses glucuronic acid/sulphate containing N-linked glycans and is recognized by anti-carbohydrate L2/HNK-1 monoclonal antibodies. The presence on Bowes t-PA of glycans associated primarily with the nervous system is consistent with its expression in a cell line of neuroectodermal origin."	1996	Jun-01	316 ( Pt 2)		427-37	8687384	211
426	"Jerkovic, L"	Afamin is a novel human vitamin E-binding glycoprotein characterization and in vitro expression	J Proteome Res	"Hydrophobic vitamins are transported in human plasma and extravascular fluids by carrier proteins. No specific protein has been described so far for vitamin E, which plays a crucial role in protecting against oxidative damage and disease. We report here the purification of a 75-kDa glycoprotein with vitamin E-binding properties by stepwise chromatography of lipoprotein-depleted human plasma and monitoring of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol)-binding activity. Partial sequencing identified this protein as afamin, a previously described member of the albumin gene family with four or five potential N-glycosylation sites. Glycosylation analysis indicated that >90% of the glycans were sialylated biantennary complex structures. The vitamin E-binding properties were confirmed using recombinantly expressed afamin. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of plasma and extravascular fluids revealed an abundant presence of this protein not only in plasma (59.8+/-13.3 microg/mL) but also in extravascular fluids such as follicular (34.4+/-12.7 microg/mL) and cerebrospinal (0.28+/-0.16 microg/mL) fluids, suggesting potential roles for afamin in fertility and neuroprotection. Afamin is partly (13%) bound to plasma lipoproteins. Afamin and vitamin E concentrations significantly correlate in follicular and cerebrospinal fluids but not in plasma. The vitamin E association of afamin in follicular fluid was directly demonstrated by gel filtration chromatography and immunoprecipitation which complements the in vitro findings for purified native and recombinant afamin."	2005	May-Jun	4	3	889-99	15952736	602
427	"Jeyakumar, M"	Delayed symptom onset and increased life expectancy in Sandhoff disease mice treated with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"Sandhoff disease is a neurodegenerative disorder resulting from the autosomal recessive inheritance of mutations in the HEXB gene, which encodes the beta-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase. GM2 ganglioside fails to be degraded and accumulates within lysosomes in cells of the periphery and the central nervous system (CNS). There are currently no therapies for the glycosphingolipid lysosomal storage diseases that involve CNS pathology, including the GM2 gangliosidoses. One strategy for treating this and related diseases is substrate deprivation. This would utilize an inhibitor of glycosphingolipid biosynthesis to balance synthesis with the impaired rate of catabolism, thus preventing storage. One such inhibitor is N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, which currently is in clinical trials for the potential treatment of type 1 Gaucher disease, a related disease that involves glycosphingolipid storage in peripheral tissues, but not in the CNS. In this study, we have evaluated whether this drug also could be applied to the treatment of diseases with CNS storage and pathology. We therefore have treated a mouse model of Sandhoff disease with the inhibitor N-butyldeoxynojirimycin. The treated mice have delayed symptom onset, reduced storage in the brain and peripheral tissues, and increased life expectancy. Substrate deprivation therefore offers a potentially general therapy for this family of lysosomal storage diseases, including those with CNS disease."	1999	May-25	96	11	6388-93	10339597	0
428	"Jeyakumar, M"	Enhanced survival in Sandhoff disease mice receiving a combination of substrate deprivation therapy and bone marrow transplantation	Blood	"Sandhoff disease is a lysosomal storage disorder characterized by G(M2) ganglioside accumulation in the central nervous system (CNS) and periphery. It results from mutations in the HEXB gene, causing a deficiency in beta-hexosaminidase. Bone marrow transplantation (BMT), which augments enzyme levels, and substrate deprivation (using the glycosphingolipid biosynthesis inhibitor N-butyldeoxynojirimycin [NB-DNJ]) independently have been shown to extend life expectancy in a mouse model of Sandhoff disease. The efficacy of combining these 2 therapies was evaluated. Sandhoff disease mice treated with BMT and NB-DNJ survived significantly longer than those treated with BMT or NB-DNJ alone. When the mice were subdivided into 2 groups on the basis of their donor bone marrow-derived CNS enzyme levels, the high enzyme group exhibited a greater degree of synergy (25%) than the group as a whole (13%). Combination therapy may therefore be the strategy of choice for treating the infantile onset disease variants."	2001	Jan-01	97	1	327-9	11133779	0
429	"Jeyakumar, M"	Glycosphingolipid lysosomal storage diseases: therapy and pathogenesis	Neuropathol Appl Neurobiol	Paediatric neurodegenerative diseases are frequently caused by inborn errors in glycosphingolipid (GSL) catabolism and are collectively termed the glycosphingolipidoses. GSL catabolism occurs in the lysosome and a defect in an enzyme involved in GSL degradation leads to the lysosomal storage of its substrate(s). GSLs are abundantly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) and the disorders frequently have a progressive neurodegenerative course. Our understanding of pathogenesis in these diseases is incomplete and currently few options exist for therapy. In this review we discuss how mouse models of these disorders are providing insights into pathogenesis and also leading to progress in evaluating experimental therapies.	2002	Oct	28	5	343-57	12366816	0
430	"Jeyakumar, M"	An inducible mouse model of late onset Tay-Sachs disease	Neurobiol Dis	"Mouse models of the G(M2) gangliosidoses, Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff disease, are null for the hexosaminidase alpha and beta subunits respectively. The Sandhoff (Hexb-/-) mouse has severe neurological disease and mimics the human infantile onset variant. However, the Tay-Sachs (Hexa-/-) mouse model lacks an overt phenotype as mice can partially bypass the blocked catabolic pathway and escape disease. We have investigated whether a subset of Tay-Sachs mice develop late onset disease. We have found that approximately 65% of the mice develop one or more clinical signs of the disease within their natural life span (n = 52, P < 0.0001). However, 100% of female mice with repeat breeding histories developed late onset disease at an earlier age (n = 21, P < 0.0001) and displayed all clinical features. Repeat breeding of a large cohort of female Tay-Sachs mice confirmed that pregnancy induces late onset Tay-Sachs disease. Onset of symptoms correlated with reduced up-regulation of hexosaminidase B, a component of the bypass pathway."	2002	Aug	10	3	201-10	12270683	0
431	"Jeyakumar, M"	Central nervous system inflammation is a hallmark of pathogenesis in mouse models of GM1 and GM2 gangliosidosis	Brain	"Mouse models of the GM2 gangliosidoses [Tay-Sachs, late onset Tay-Sachs (LOTS), Sandhoff] and GM1 gangliosidosis have been studied to determine whether there is a common neuro-inflammatory component to these disorders. During the disease course, we have: (i) examined the expression of a number of inflammatory markers in the CNS, including MHC class II, CD68, CD11b (CR3), 7/4, F4/80, nitrotyrosine, CD4 and CD8; (ii) profiled cytokine production [tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), transforming growth factor (TGF beta 1) and interleukin 1 beta (IL1 beta)]; and (iii) studied blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity. The kinetics of apoptosis and the expression of Fas and TNF-R1 were also assessed. In all symptomatic mouse models, a progressive increase in local microglial activation/expansion and infiltration of inflammatory cells was noted. Altered BBB permeability was evident in Sandhoff and GM1 mice, but absent in LOTS mice. Progressive CNS inflammation coincided with the onset of clinical signs in these mouse models. Substrate reduction therapy in the Sandhoff mouse model slowed the rate of accumulation of glycosphingolipids in the CNS, thus delaying the onset of the inflammatory process and disease pathogenesis. These data suggest that inflammation may play an important role in the pathogenesis of the gangliosidoses."	2003	Apr	126	Pt 4	974-87	12615653	0
432	"Jeyakumar, M"	NSAIDs increase survival in the Sandhoff disease mouse: synergy with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin	Ann Neurol	"The GM2 gangliosidoses are caused by incomplete catabolism of GM2 ganglioside in the lysosome, leading to progressive storage and a neurodegenerative clinical course. An inflammatory response (microglial activation, macrophage infiltration, oxidative damage) has been found to be a consequence of GM2 storage in the brain, although it remains unclear whether this contributes to pathogenesis or disease progression. In this study, we treated Sandhoff disease mice with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (indomethacin, aspirin, and ibuprofen) and antioxidants (L-ascorbic acid and alpha-tocopherol acetate). The treated mice lived significantly longer than untreated littermates (12-23%, p <0.0001) and showed a slower rate of disease progression (p <0.001). When aspirin treatment was combined with substrate reduction therapy, synergy resulted (11%, p <0.05) with a maximum improvement of 73% in survival (p <0.00001). This study demonstrates that inflammation contributes to disease progression and identifies antiinflammatory and antioxidant therapies as a potential adjunctive approach to slow the clinical course of this and related disorders."	2004	Nov	56	5	642-9	15505823	0
433	"Jeyakumar, M"	Storage solutions: treating lysosomal disorders of the brain	Nat Rev Neurosci	"Many neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by the accumulation of undegradable molecules in cells or at extracellular sites in the brain. One such family of diseases is the lysosomal storage disorders, which result from defects in various aspects of lysosomal function. Until recently, there was little prospect of treating storage diseases involving the CNS. However, recent progress has been made in understanding these conditions and in translating the findings into experimental therapies. We review the developments in this field and discuss the similarities in pathological features between these diseases and some more common neurodegenerative disorders."	2005	Sep	6	9	713-25	16049428	0
434	"Joao, HC"	Effects of glycosylation on protein conformation and amide proton exchange rates in RNase B	FEBS Lett	"Assignment of most of the proton NMR resonances of bovine pancreatic RNase B has been achieved using standard NMR techniques and by comparison with the published assignments for RNase A. A comparison of the NMR spectra of RNase B with RNase A shows that glycosylation of the enzyme has little overall effect on the conformation of the protein in solution. Comparisons of hydrogen-deuterium solvent exchange rates for the NH protons of RNase A and RNase B were made using two-dimensional 1H correlation spectroscopy. In the case of the glycosylated enzyme the exchange rates decreased for the NH protons of residues 9-14, 23-24, 32, 34-35, 39-40, 43-44, 48-49, 60, 71, 75-76, 80, 83-85, 100-101, 107, 111 and 122, relative to the unglycosylated RNase A. These results are consistent with the presence of the oligosaccharide inducing enhanced global dynamic stability and consequent changes to the unfolding equilibrium of the enzyme. The enhanced stability is observed not only for residues in the vicinity of the glycosylation site, asparagine-34, but also at residues remote from this site, as much as 30 A away."	1992	Aug-03	307	3	343-6	1322837	0
435	"Joao, HC and Dwek, RA"	Effects of glycosylation on protein structure and dynamics in ribonuclease B and some of its individual glycoforms	Eur J Biochem	"In an attempt to elucidate the role of carbohydrates on protein structure and dynamics in glycoproteins, ribonuclease B (RNase B), containing a single glycosylation site at Asn34, has been investigated and compared with the enzyme in the unglycosylated form (RNase A). RNase B consists of five glycoforms: Man5GlcNAc2, Man6GlcNAc2, Man7GlcNAc2, Man8GlcNAc2 and Man9GlcNAc2 (Man5-9GlcNAc2). The individual glycoforms Man1GlcNAc2 (synthetic) and Man5GlcNAc2 of RNase B have been studied to ascertain any specific effects of the different oligosaccharides. NMR measurement of amide-proton/deuterium exchange rates shows that glycosylation of the enzyme leads to the protection of amide-proton resonances from solvent exchange for a large number of residues, both in the vicinity of the glycosylation site (e.g. residues 29-34 and 35) and remote from it (e.g. residues 57-61 and 75-76). In addition, residues 10-13, 32, 34 and 35, which are observed to be protected from exchange as a result of glycosylation in the individual glycoforms Man1Glc-NAc2-RNase and Man5GlcNAc2-RNase (when compared with RNase A) are less protected in RNase B. This additional protection in the glycoforms Man1GlcNAc2-RNase and Man5GlcNAc2-RNase may arise from steric hindrance between the oligosaccharide and protein reducing solvent accessibility. The rates of solvent exchange of amide protons for residues 10-13, 32, 34 and 35 are dependent on the oligosaccharide moiety. The average amide-proton/deuterium exchange rate in Man6-9Glc-NAc2-ribonucleases for residues 10-13 and 35 is approximately three times greater than Man5Glc-NAc2-ribonuclease, while for residues 32 and 34 it is approximately 7-11 times greater. CD analysis of RNase A and RNase B revealed the carbohydrate moiety to have a small stabilizing effect (approximately 5 kJ/mol) on the protein."	1993	Nov-15	218	1	239-44	8243469	0
436	"Jones, R"	Conformational states of rabbit muscle phosphofructokinase investigated by a spin label probe	FEBS Lett		1972	Oct-01	26	1	92-6	4344298	0
437	"Jones, R"	Magnetic resonance studies on manganese-activated phosphofructokinase	Eur J Biochem		1972	Jun-23	28	1	74-82	4261993	0
438	"Jones, R"	Spin-labelled phosphofructokinase and its interactions with ATP and metal-ATP complexes as studied by magnetic-resonance methods	Eur J Biochem		1973	Apr-02	34	1	28-40	4349656	0
439	"Jones, R and Dwek, RA"	The mechanism of water-proton relaxation in enzyme paramagnetic-ion complexes. 1. The Gd(3)-lysozyme complex	Eur J Biochem		1974	Sep-01	47	2	271-83	4370484	0
440	"Jones, R"	The mechanism of water-proton relaxation in enzyme-paramagnetic-ion complexes. 2. The Mn(II)-ATP-phosphofructokinase ternary complex	Eur J Biochem		1974	Sep-01	47	2	285-93	4278327	0
441	"Jones, R"	Spin-labelled phosphofructokinase. A simple and direct approach to the study of allosteric equilibria under near-physiological conditions	Eur J Biochem	"Rabbit muscle phosphofructokinase, spin-labelled at its most reactive thiol group, has an electron spin resonance spectrum which is very sensitive to the binding of substrates and allosteric effectors. The spectral changes have been interpreted in terms of a concerted allosteric transition between two conformational states with non-exclusive binding of effectors. On this basis MgATP, fructose 6-phosphate plus ATP, and NH+4ions behave as potent positive effectors, inorganic phosphate, sulphate, AMP, fructose 6-phosphate and fructose 1,6-bisphosphate are less potent activators, and free ATP and H+ions are negative effectors, in agreement with the kinetic behaviour, but citrate behaves anomalously. In addition, the allosteric equilibrium can be displaced towards the inhibited state by selectively modifying two further thiol groups. Strong positive cooperativity occurs under suitable conditions with ATP, metal-ATP and fructose 6-phosphate. Biphasic changes of conformation, attributed to binding at the catalytic and inhibitory sites, have been observed in titrations with ATP. The differentiation of the two ATP binding sites arises in the presence of fructose 6-phosphate because of a distinct concerted effect on conformation between the two substrates at the active site. A similar effect occurs between ATP and citrate. Other heterotropic effects are more consistent with simple models; phosphates favour the binding, and reduce the cooperativity, of fructose 6-phosphate and metal-ATP, whereas excess ATP and H+ ions antagonise the binding and increase the cooperativity of fructose 6-phosphate. The observations are related to existing kinetic and binding studies where possible. Anomalous features of the behaviour suggest that the model should be regarded only as a first approximation."	1975	Dec-01	60	1	187-98	1264	0
442	"Jordan, R"	Inhibition of host ER glucosidase activity prevents Golgi processing of virion-associated bovine viral diarrhea virus E2 glycoproteins and reduces infectivity of secreted virions	Virology	"Recently, it was shown that replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is sensitive to inhibitors of host ER glucosidases. Consistent with these findings, we report that incubation of BVDV-infected MDBK cells with the glucosidase inhibitor n-butyl-deoxynojirimycin (nB-DNJ) reduced BVDV yields by 70- to 100-fold (n = 27), while having no effect on MDBK cell viability. However, the 70- to 100-fold reduction in infectious virus was associated with only a 2-fold reduction in genomic RNA synthesis and secretion of enveloped virus particles. Analysis of secreted virions showed that in the absence of glucosidase inhibitor, approximately 50% of the virion-associated BVDV E2 glycoprotein was resistant to endoglycosidase H (endo H) digestion, whereas intracellular E2 was completely sensitive to endo H digestion. In the presence of glucosidase inhibitor, virion-associated E2 and intracellular E2 were completely sensitive to endo H digestion. Taken together, these results suggest that BVDV is secreted through a Golgi-mediated pathway and that host ER glucosidase activity is required for production of infectious virions and Golgi processing of envelope E2 protein during virus egress."	2002	Mar-30	295	1	10-Sep	12033761	0
443	"Jordan, R"	Replication of a cytopathic strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus activates PERK and induces endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated apoptosis of MDBK cells	J Virol	"Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress signaling is an adaptive cellular response to the loss of ER Ca(2+) homeostasis and/or the accumulation of misfolded, unassembled, or aggregated proteins in the ER lumen. ER stress-activated signaling pathways regulate protein synthesis initiation and can also trigger apoptosis through the ER-associated caspase 12. Viruses that utilize the host cell ER as an integral part of their life cycle would be predicted to cause some level of ER stress. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a positive-stranded RNA virus of the Flaviviridae family. BVDV and related flaviviruses use the host ER as the primary site of envelope glycoprotein biogenesis, genomic replication, and particle assembly. We are using a cytopathic strain of BVDV (cpBVDV) that causes cellular apoptosis as a model system to determine how virus-induced ER stress contributes to pathogenesis. We show that, in a natural infection of MDBK cells, cpBVDV activates the ER transmembrane kinase PERK (PKR-like ER kinase) and causes hyperphosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2 alpha, consistent with the induction of an ER stress response. Additionally, we show that initiation of cellular apoptosis correlates with downregulation of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein, induced expression of caspase 12, and a decrease in intracellular glutathione levels. Defining the molecular stress pathways leading to cpBVDV-induced apoptosis provides the basis to study how other ER-tropic viruses, such as hepatitis C and B viruses, modulate the host cell ER stress response during the course of persistent infection."	2002	Oct	76	19	9588-99	12208938	0
444	"Jorgensen-Tye, B"	"Epitope recognition of antibodies that define the sialomucin, endolyn (CD164), a negative regulator of haematopoiesis"	Tissue Antigens	"Endolyn (CD164) is a sialomucin that functions as an adhesion molecule and a negative regulator of CD34+ CD38- human haematopoietic precursor cell proliferation. The 105A5 and 103B2/9E10 CD164 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), which act as surrogate ligands, recognize distinct glycosylation-dependent classes I and II epitopes located on domain I of the native and recombinant CD164 proteins. Here, we document five new CD164 mAbs, the 96 series, that rely on conformational integrity, but not glycosylation, of exons 2- and 3-encoded CD164 domains, thereby resembling the class III mAbs, N6B6 and 67D2. Although all the 96 series class III mAbs labelled both the 105A5+ and 103B2/9E10+ cells, cross-competition and immunoblotting studies allow them to be categorized into two distinct class III subgroups, i.e. the N6B6-like subgroup that only recognizes 80-100 kDa proteins and the 67D2-like subgroup that also recognizes a higher molecular weight (>220 kDa) form. To more closely define the reactivity patterns of mAbs to the classes I and II epitopes, the global glycosylation patterns of the soluble human (h) CD164 proteins were determined using lectin binding, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and mass spectrometry. hCD164 recombinant proteins bound to the lectins, Galanthus nivalis agglutinin, Datura stramonium agglutinin, Sambucus nigra agglutinin, Maackia amurensis agglutinin and peanut agglutinin, indicating the presence of high mannose and complex N-glycans, in addition to core 1 O-glycans (the Tn antigen) and alpha2-3 and alpha2-6 sialic acid moieties. Our HPLC and mass spectrometry results revealed both high mannose and complex N-glycosylation with various numbers of branches increasing the complexity of the glycosylation pattern. Most O-glycans were small, core 1 or 2 based. High levels of sialylation in alpha2-3 and alpha2-6 linkages, without sialyl-Lewis X, indicate that the majority of these hCD164 recombinant proteins are unable to bind to selectins in our assay system, but may interact with Siglec molecules."	2005	Mar	65	3	220-39	15730515	586
445	"Joshi, L"	Influence of baculovirus-host cell interactions on complex N-linked glycosylation of a recombinant human protein	Biotechnol Prog	"The conditions required for mammalian-type complex N-linked glycosylation of human proteins produced in insect cells with the baculovirus expression vector system were investigated. Marked alterations to N-linked glycosylation of human placental secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) were observed with different baculovirus species, insect cell lines, and cell culture media. When a recombinant Autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus (AcMNPV) was used to produce SEAP in Trichoplusia ni (Tn-4h) cells cultured in serum-free medium, structural analyses indicated <1% hybrid and no complex oligosaccharides attached to SEAP, a typical result with the baculovirus expression vector system. However, when fetal bovine serum was added to the culture medium, 48 +/- 4% of the oligosaccharides were hybrid or complex (but asialylated) glycans. When a recombinant T. ni nucleopolyhedrovirus (TnSNPV) was similarly used to express SEAP in Tn-4h cells cultured in serum-containing medium, only 24 +/- 3% of the glycans contained terminal N-acetylglucosamine and/or galactose residues. In contrast, SEAP produced in Sf9 cells grown in serum-containing medium with AcMNPV contained <1% hybrid oligosaccharides and no complex oligosaccharides. The results illustrate that baculovirus type, host cell type, and the growth medium all have a strong influence on the glycosylation pathway in insect cells, resulting in significant alterations in structures and relative abundance of N-linked glycoforms. Although the addition of sialic acid residues to the SEAP glycans was not detected, possible approaches to obtain sialylated glycans are discussed."	2000	Jul-Aug	16	4	650-6	10933841	0
446	"Kardana, A"	"Urinary gonadotrophin peptide--isolation and purification, and its immunohistochemical distribution in normal and neoplastic tissues"	Br J Cancer	"A urinary gonadotrophin peptide (UGP) was isolated and purified from semi-purified human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG), prepared from pregnancy urine. The peptide showed hCG-B subunit activity and no hCG-alpha subunit activity as demonstrated by binding studies with the relevant antibodies. It had a molecular weight significantly less than hCG-B subunit. The peptide was linked to thyroglobulin and this conjugate used to immunise rabbits and mice. A radioimmunoassay (RIA) using 125I-UGP and the rabbit antiserum (AK12) was used to monitor chromatographed urine fractions from patients with ovarian carcinoma, seminoma and hydatidiform mole. UGP was also found in the urine extract of a healthy male, but at a much lower level. In each case the UGP detected had the same molecular weight as the pregnancy preparation and appeared to be the main gonadotrophin constituent in those urine samples. Initial immunohistochemical screening of normal and neoplastic tissues with the rabbit antibody (AK12) showed reactivity with some tumours including carcinomas of the lung, ovary, cervix and breast as well as trophoblastic and germ cell tumours. Reactions with non-neoplastic tissues were confined to some specialised epithelia and macrophage populations. A more comprehensive immunohistochemical study was made using a monoclonal antibody to UGP (2C2), with a monoclonal antibody to conformational hCG (INN 13) and another monoclonal antibody to free B subunit (1E5) as controls. Similar patterns of reactivity were produced by the AK12 and 2C2 antibodies in both neoplastic and non-neoplastic tissues. Additional tissues were investigated with the three monoclonal antibodies. The 2C2 antibody reacted with 93% (77/83) of tumours examined; the INN 13 antibody reacted with only the syncytiotrophoblast cells of choriocarcinoma, hydatidiform mole, placental site trophoblastic tumour, and in one case of seminoma; the 1E5 reactivity was confined to only choriocarcinoma syncytiotrophoblast cells."	1988	Sep	58	3	281-6	3052560	0
447	"Kardana, A"	Characterisation of antibodies to urinary gonadotrophin peptide	J Immunol Methods	"There is now general recognition that human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), its beta subunit and its fragments are valuable diagnostic markers of trophoblastic and some non-trophoblastic malignancies. Urinary gonadotropin peptide (UGP) contains at least one epitope which cross-reacts with the beta-subunit of hCG. In order to assess the potential of UGP as a tumour marker in its own right, it was paramount that any measurements made could be regarded as specific for UGP and not cross-reactive with either hCG or human luteinising hormone (hLH). Four antibodies were tested, two polyclonal (AK12 and DR-Pool) and two monoclonal (2C2 and 6D3). Initial screening using radioiodinated (125I) UGP, hCG, hCG beta-subunit and hLH showed that the polyclonal antibodies bound to all four gonadotrophins, whilst the monoclonal antibodies bound only to the radioiodinated UGP. The antibodies were tested in both radioimmunoassay (RIA) and immunoradiometric assay (IRMA-sandwich assay) systems. The parameters measured were sensitivity and specificity for UGP. The polyclonal antibodies used in the RIA system produced a sensitive assay (0.2 ng/ml UGP) which was relatively specific; cross-reactions for the AK12 antibody (at 50% inhibition) were 5% for hCG, 11% for its beta-subunit, 0.4% for the alpha-subunit and 2.6% for hLH. The monoclonal antibodies performed optimally in the IRMA system. Immobilised 2C2 and radiolabelled (125I) AK12 produced a system that had a sensitivity of 0.4 ng/ml UGP and cross-reactivity (50% maximum binding) of 2% for the hCG beta-subunit and less than 1% for hCG, hLH and the hCG alpha-subunit."	1989	Mar-10	118	1	53-8	2926152	0
448	"Karlsson, GB and Platt, FM"	Analysis and isolation of human transferrin receptor using the OKT-9 monoclonal antibody covalently crosslinked to magnetic beads	Anal Biochem	"A method is described for the use of magnetic beads as a solid phase for the immunoprecipitation of labeled proteins. The anti-human transferrin receptor monoclonal antibody OKT-9 has been coupled to sheep anti-mouse IgG1-coated magnetic beads using the crosslinking agent dimethyl pimelimidate. The transferrin receptor is readily detected by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography following immunoprecipitation from 35S-labeled cell lysates. When compared with precipitations using OKT-9 coupled to protein G Sepharose the magnetic beads result in fewer nonspecific bands. The protocol described is generally applicable to the identification of labeled proteins. In addition, because magnetic beads are amenable to covalent crosslinking procedures they can be used for the purification of proteins from complex mixtures. Covalently crosslinked OKT-9 sheep anti-mouse IgG1-coated magnetic beads have been used to affinity purify unlabeled transferrin receptor from cell lysates giving comparable purity and yield to transferrin Sepharose isolated transferrin receptor. The major advantages offered by magnetic beads compared to conventional affinity matrices are low nonspecific binding and the rapidity with which the purification can be performed."	1991	Dec	199	2	219-22	1812788	0
449	"Karlsson, GB"	Effects of the imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin on the N-glycosylation of recombinant gp120	J Biol Chem	"The imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) exhibits anti-HIV activity in vitro and inhibits the purified glycoprocessing enzyme alpha 1,2-glucosidase I. It has been speculated that the anti-viral activity of this compound may result from inhibition of HIV envelope glycoprotein processing. However, structural evidence that glucosidase inhibition takes place in intact cells at the anti-viral concentration (0.5 mM) is lacking. In this study, N-linked glycosylation of recombinant gp120 expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells cultured in the presence or absence of NB-DNJ has been characterized. Immunoprecipitation, in conjunction with endoglycosidase H (endo H) digestion and SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis, revealed that the glycosylation of gp120 was profoundly altered in the presence of NB-DNJ. The majority of the gp120 oligosaccharides from untreated cells were resistant to endo H. However, nearly complete endo H sensitivity was observed following treatment with 0.5 mM NB-DNJ indicating that gp120 expressed in treated cells carries immature, high mannose type oligosaccharides. In addition, using metabolic labeling with [3H]mannose, gel filtration chromatography, and digestion with highly purified glucosidases I and II, we provide the first definitive evidence that glucosidase I inhibition occurs at the anti-viral concentration of NB-DNJ. These data indicate that glucosidase inhibition is a candidate mechanism for the anti-viral activity of this compound."	1993	Jan-05	268	1	570-6	8416962	0
450	"Karpas, A"	Aminosugar derivatives as potential anti-human immunodeficiency virus agents	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"Recent data suggest that aminosugar derivatives which inhibit glycoprotein processing have potential anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) activity. These inhibitory effects may be due to disruption of cell fusion and subsequent cell-cell transmission of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) virus. Free virus particles able to bind CD4-positive cells are still produced in the presence of these compounds with only partial reduction of infectivity. We now report a method to score in parallel both the degree of antiviral activity and the effect on cell division of aminosugar derivatives. We find that (i) the compounds 1,4-dideoxy-1,4-imino-L-arabinitol and N-(5-carboxymethyl-1-pentyl)-1,5-imino-L-fucitol partially inhibit the cytopathic effect (giant cell formation, etc.) of HIV and yield of infectious virus; (ii) the compounds N-methyldeoxynojirimycin and N-ethyldeoxynojirimycin reduce the yield of infectious HIV by an order of four and three logarithms, respectively; and (iii) one compound, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, of the 47 compounds previously screened reduces infectious viral particles by a logarithmic order greater than five at noncytotoxic concentrations. In addition, long-term growth of infected cells in the presence of N-butyldeoxynojirimycin gradually decreases the proportion of infected cells, leading to eventual elimination of HIV from culture. This result suggests that replication is associated with cytolysis. The ability to break the cycle of replication and reinfection has important implications in the chemotherapy of AIDS."	1988	Dec	85	23	9229-33	3264071	0
451	"Kasperzyk, JL"	N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin reduces neonatal brain ganglioside content in a mouse model of GM1 gangliosidosis	J Neurochem	"GM1 gangliosidosis is a glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage disease caused by a genetic deficiency of acid beta-galactosidase (beta-gal), the enzyme that catabolyzes GM1 within lysosomes. Accumulation of GM1 and its asialo form (GA1) occurs primarily in the brain, leading to progressive neurodegeneration and brain dysfunction. Substrate reduction therapy aims to decrease the rate of GSL biosynthesis to counterbalance the impaired rate of catabolism. The imino sugar N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin (NB-DGJ) is a competitive inhibitor of the ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase that catalyzes the first step in GSL biosynthesis. Neonatal C57BL/6J (B6) and beta-gal knockout (-/-) mice were injected daily from post-natal day 2 (p-2) to p-5 with either vehicle or NB-DGJ at 600 mg or 1200 mg/kg body weight. These drug concentrations significantly reduced total brain ganglioside and GM1 content in the B6 and the beta-gal (-/-) mice. Drug treatment had no significant effect on viability, body weight, brain weight, or brain water content in the B6 and beta-gal (-/-) mice. Significant elevations in neutral lipids (GA1, ceramide, and sphingomyelin) were observed in the NB-DGJ-treated beta-gal (-/-) mice, but were not associated with adverse effects. Also, NB-DGJ treatment of B6 and beta-gal (-/-) mice from p-2 to p-5 had no subsequent effect on brain ganglioside content at p-21. Our results show that NB-DGJ is effective in reducing total brain ganglioside and GM1 content at early neonatal ages. These findings suggest that substrate reduction therapy using NB-DGJ may be an effective early intervention for GM1 gangliosidosis and possibly other GSL lysosomal storage diseases."	2004	May	89	3	645-53	15086521	0
452	"Kasperzyk, JL"	Substrate reduction reduces gangliosides in postnatal cerebrum-brainstem and cerebellum in GM1 gangliosidosis mice	J Lipid Res	"II3NeuAc-GgOse4Cer (GM1) gangliosidosis is an incurable lysosomal storage disease caused by a deficiency in acid beta-galactosidase (beta-gal), resulting in the accumulation of ganglioside GM1 and its asialo derivative GgOse4Cer (GA1) in the central nervous system, primarily in the brain. In this study, we investigated the effects of N-butyldeoxygalacto-nojirimycin (N B-DGJ), an imino sugar that inhibits ganglioside biosynthesis, in normal C57BL/6J mice and in beta-gal knockout (beta-gal-/-) mice from postnatal day 9 (p-9) to p-15. This is a period of active cerebellar development and central nervous system (CNS) myelinogenesis in the mouse and would be comparable to late-stage embryonic and early neonatal development in humans. N B-DGJ significantly reduced total ganglioside and GM1 content in cerebrum-brainstem (C-BS) and in cerebellum of normal and beta-gal-/- mice. N B-DGJ had no adverse effects on body weight or C-BS/cerebellar weight, water content, or thickness of the external cerebellar granule cell layer. Sphingomyelin was increased in C-BS and cerebellum, but no changes were found for cerebroside (a myelin-enriched glycosphingolipid), neutral phospholipids, or GA1 in the treated mice. Our findings indicate that the effects of N B-DGJ in the postnatal CNS are largely specific to gangliosides and suggest that N B-DGJ may be an effective early intervention therapy for GM1 gangliosidosis and other ganglioside storage disorders."	2005	Apr	46	4	744-51	15687347	0
453	"Kato, A"	Polyhydroxylated pyrrolidine and pyrrolizidine alkaloids from Hyancinthoides non-scripta and Scilla campanulata	Carbohydr Res	"Aqueous ethanol extracts from the immature fruits and stalks of bluebell (Hyacinthoides non-scripta) were subjected to various ion-exchange column chromatographic steps to give 1,4-dideoxy-1,4-imino-D-arabinitol (1),2(R),5(R)-bis(hydroxymethyl)-3(R),4(R)-dihydroxypyrrolidine (DMDP) (2), 6-deoxy-6-C-(2,5-dihydroxyhexyl)-DMDP (3),2,5-dideoxy-2,5-imino-DL-glycero-D-manno-heptitol (homoDMDP)(4),homoDMDP-7-O-apioside (5), homoDMDP-7-O-beta-D-xylopyranoside (6), (1S*,2R*,3R*,5R*,7aR*)-1,2-dihydroxy-3,5- dihydroxymethylpyrrolizidine (7), and (1S*,2R*,3R*,5R*,6R*,7R*,7aR*)-3-hydroxymethyl-5-methyl-1,2,6,7 tetrahydroxypyrrolizidine (8). Bulbs of Scilla campanulata (Hyacinthaceae) yielded (1S*,2R*,3R*,5S*,7aR*)-1,2-dihydroxy-3,5-dihydroxy-methylpyrrol izidine (9) in addition to compounds 1-7. Compounds 3,6,7,8, and 9 are new natural products. Compound 4 is a potent competitive inhibitor with K(i) values of 1.5 microM for Caldocellum saccharolyticum beta-glucosidase and 2.2 microM for bovine liver beta-galactosidase. The 7-O-beta-D xyloside 6 was a stronger competitive inhibitor than 4 of C saccharolyticum beta-glucosidase and rat intestinal lactase, with K(i) values of 0.06 and 0.07 microM, respectively, but a weaker inhibitor of bovine liver beta-galactosidase. Furthermore, compound 4 is also a competitive inhibitor (K(i) = 1.8 microM) of porcine kidney trehalase, but 6 was inactive against this enzyme."	1999	Mar-31	316	01-Apr	95-103	10515698	0
454	"Kent, PW and Dwek, RA"	N-fluoroacetyl-alpha-D-glucosamine as a molecular probe of lysozyme structure by using ( 19 F) fluorine nuclear-magnetic-resonance techniques	Biochem J		1971	Jan	121	1	11P-12P	5165619	0
455	"Kent, PW"	Configurational dependencies of (19F) fluorine chemical shifts and coupling constants in fluoromonosaccharides	Biochem J		1971	Jan	121	1	10P-11P	5116525	0
456	"Kerrigan, DD"	Duodenal bulb acidity and the natural history of duodenal ulceration	Lancet	"Fasting and post-prandial duodenal bulb pH was recorded in 10 subjects with untreated duodenal ulcers (DU), 10 subjects with healed DU, and 15 healthy volunteers. During fasting, pH was less than 4 for a greater percentage of time in healed than in active DU. Ingestion of a solid test meal accentuated this difference: subjects with active DU and controls both showed less bulb acidification than subjects with healed ulcers. Bulb pH was similar in patients with active ulceration and controls. The finding of neutral bulb pH with active ulceration and low bulb pH with healing may explain the typical cycle of spontaneous healing and relapse in duodenal ulcer disease."	1989	Jul-08	2	8654	61-3	2567869	0
457	"Kerrigan, DD"	Disturbed gastroduodenal motility in patients with active and healed duodenal ulceration	Gastroenterology	"Disordered gastroduodenal motility may promote duodenal ulceration by allowing prolonged acid contact with the duodenal mucosa. Using a multilumen perfused catheter incorporating 3 pH microelectrodes, antral and duodenal pH and antropyloroduodenal pressure activity were recorded in 36 subjects (10 with healed duodenal ulceration, 11 with active duodenal ulceration, and 15 healthy volunteers) during fasting and after a radiolabeled solid test meal. Correct pH probe/catheter position was continuously verified by recording transmucosal potential difference across the pylorus. Patients with active and healed duodenal ulcer had similarly disordered gastroduodenal motility. The chief abnormalities consisted of an increase in postprandial duodenal retroperistalsis (healed duodenal ulceration, 12 +/- 1 events per hour; active duodenal ulceration, 12 +/- 1; control, 6 +/- 1; mean +/- SEM: healed and active duodenal ulceration vs. control, P = 0.004 and P = 0.03, respectively), a reduction in pressure waves sweeping aborally through the duodenum after the meal (healed duodenal ulceration, 22 +/- 4 events per hour; active duodenal ulceration, 23 +/- 3; control, 34 +/- 4: healed and active duodenal ulceration vs. control, P = 0.04 and P less than 0.05, respectively), and an increased incidence of atypical, complex forms of coordinated duodenal motor activity throughout the study (postprandial data; healed duodenal ulceration, 8 +/- 1 events per hour; active duodenal ulceration, 10 +/- 1; control, 4 +/- 1: healed and active duodenal ulceration vs. control, P = 0.02 and P less than 0.02, respectively). In addition, gastric emptying of the solid test meal was significantly delayed in healed, but not active, duodenal ulceration [half-emptying time, healed duodenal ulceration 185 minutes (117-235); active duodenal ulceration 102 minutes (80-200); control 107 minutes (78-130): healed duodenal ulceration vs. control, P less than 0.009]. Duodenal bulb pH was similar in controls and patients with active duodenal ulceration; however, bulb pH was less than 4 for a significantly greater period of time in healed duodenal ulceration compared with active ulcer patients, particularly after the meal. In conclusion, duodenal ulcer disease is associated with disturbed gastroduodenal motility, even when the ulcer is quiescent and when intraduodenal acidity is low. In healed duodenal ulceration, disturbed motility may promote ulcer relapse by impairing acid clearance from the bulb. However, in active ulceration other factors such as mucosal bicarbonate secretion may have a more influential role in determining intraduodenal pH."	1991	Apr	100	4	892-900	2001828	0
458	"Kerrigan, DD"	"Acid, motility, and ulcers: a comparison of cisapride with placebo in the prevention of duodenal ulcer relapse"	Gut	"In a single centre double blind study of 66 patients, the value of cisapride (10 mg twice daily) was compared with placebo in the prevention of duodenal ulcer relapse. Patients who remained ulcer free attended for clinical review every two months and had a mandatory endoscopy at 0, 4, 8, and 12 months or if symptoms suggestive of ulcer recurrence developed. The 12 month crude relapse rates (that underestimate the probability of ulcer recurrence) showed that cisapride was superior to placebo (34% (11/32) relapsed on cisapride v 68% (23/34) on placebo, p = 0.007). This finding was confirmed using lifetable analysis, with a 35% reduction (95% confidence intervals 10-59%, p < 0.05) in the proportion of ulcer relapses in patients who had received cisapride compared with those treated with placebo. These results are similar to those reported in maintenance trials of H2 receptor antagonists analysed by the same method. Drug related adverse clinical events were mainly trivial, but led to three patients on cisapride and one on placebo withdrawing from the trial."	1993	Aug	34	8	1042-6	8174950	0
459	"Khalaila, I"	Structural characterization of the N-glycan moiety and site of glycosylation in vitellogenin from the decapod crustacean Cherax quadricarinatus	Glycobiology	"Glycosylation is of importance for the structure and function of proteins. In the case of vitellin (Vt), a ubiquitous protein accumulated into granules as the main yolk protein constituent of oocytes during oogenesis, glycosylation could be of importantance for the folding, processing and transport of the protein to the yolk and also provides a source of carbohydrate during embryogenesis. Vt from the crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus is synthesized as a precursor protein, vitellogenin (Vg), in the hepatopancreas, transferred to the hemolymph, and mobilized into the growing oocyte via receptor-mediated endocytosis. The gene sequence of C. quadricarinatus shows a 2584-amino-acid protein with 10 putative glycosylation sites. In this study a combined approach of lectin immunoblotting, in-gel deglycosylation, and mass spectrometry was used to identify the glycosylation sites and probe the structure of the glycan moieties using C. quadricarinatus Vg as a model system. Three of the consensus sites for N-glycosylation-namely, Asn(152), Asn(160) and Asn(2493)-were glycosylated with the high-mannose glycans, Man(5-9)GlcNAc(2), and the glucose-capped oligosaccharide Glc(1)Man(9)GlcNAc(2)."	2004	Sep	14	9	767-74	15175255	0
460	"Kim, SJ"	Organization of the gene encoding the human macrophage mannose receptor (MRC1)	Genomics	"The gene for the human macrophage mannose receptor (MRC1) has been characterized by isolation of clones covering the entire coding region. Sequence analysis reveals that the gene is divided into 30 exons. The first three exons encode the signal sequence, the NH2-terminal cysteine-rich domain, and the fibronectin type II repeat, while the final exon encodes the transmembrane anchor and the cytoplasmic tail. The intervening 26 exons encode the eight carbohydrate-recognition domains and intervening spacer elements. However, no simple correlation between intron boundaries and functional carbohydrate-recognition domains is apparent. The pattern of intron positions as well as comparison of the sequences of the carbohydrate-recognition domains suggests that the duplication of these domains was an evolutionarily ancient event."	1992	Nov	14	3	721-7	1294118	0
461	"Kim, S"	Structural determination of the N-glycans of a lepidopteran arylphorin reveals the presence of a monoglucosylated oligosaccharide in the storage protein	Glycobiology	"The structures of the oligosaccharides attached to arylphorin from Chinese oak silkworm, Antheraea pernyi, have been determined. Arylphorin, a storage protein present in fifth larval hemolymph, contained 4.8% (w/w) of carbohydrate that was composed of Fuc:GlcNAc:Glc:Man=0.2:4.0:1.4:13.6 moles per mole protein. Four moles of GlcNAc in oligomannose-type oligosaccharides strongly suggest that the protein contains two N-glycosylation sites. Normal-phase HPLC and mass spectrometry oligosaccharide profiles confirmed that arylphorin contained mainly oligomannose-type glycans as well as truncated mannose-type structures with or without fucosylation. Interestingly, the most abundant oligosaccharide was monoglucosylated Man9-GlcNAc2, which was characterized by normal-phase HPLC, mass spectrometry, Aspergillus saitoi alpha-mannosidase digestion, and 1H 600 MHz NMR spectrometry. This glycan structure is not normally present in secreted mammalian glycoproteins; however, it has been identified in avian species. The Glc1Man9GlcNAc2 structure was present only in arylphorin, whereas other hemolymph proteins contained only oligomannose and truncated oligosaccharides. The oligosaccharide was also detected in the arylphorin of another silkworm, Bombyx mori, suggesting a specific function for the Glc1Man9GlcNAc2 glycan. There were no processed glucosylated oligosaccharides such as Glc1Man5-8GlcNAc2. Furthermore, Glc1Man9GlcNAc2 was not released from arylophorin by PNGase F under nondenaturing conditions, suggesting that the N-glycosidic linkage to Asn is protected by the protein. Glc1Man9GlcNAc2 may play a role in the folding of arylphorin or in the assembly of hexamers."	2003	Mar	13	3	147-57	12626419	0
462	"Kim, YG"	The identification and characterization of xenoantigenic nonhuman carbohydrate sequences in membrane proteins from porcine kidney	Proteomics	"The immunogenic nonhuman carbohydrate sequences in membrane proteins from porcine kidney were identified and characterized using MALDI-TOF MS and ESI-QTOF-MS. The MALDI profile, investigated by incubation with exoglycosidases, showed a series of about 40 carbohydrates that were identified as high mannose glycans (Man(3-9)GlcNAc2) and complex bi-, tri-, and tetra-antennary glycans with and without core fucose. The antennae of many of the complex glycans were terminated with alpha-galactose residues, with the numbers of these residues ranging from one up to the number of antennae. Negative ion ESI-MS/MS spectra confirmed the location of the alpha-galactose residues on the ends of the antennae. This total glycan profile of the membrane proteins from porcine kidney will thus provide important information for the study of molecular interactions between antigenic carbohydrates and proteins in xenotransplantation."	2006	Feb	6	4	1133-42	16470663	0
463	"Klein, EE"	Use of a lucite beam spoiler for high-energy breast irradiation	Med Dosim	"Treatment planning for breast cancer is a challenge for bridge separations greater than 24 cm. protocols require dose homogeneity to the breast parenchyma to 10% while maintaining good cosmesis (skin sparing). Low-energy beams (6 MV or lower) may not achieve protocol specifications because of lateral or medial hot spots. The buildup region for high-energy beams (i.e., 18 MV) may lead to underdosing in the superficial regions. Adding bolus will pull the isodoses to surface, surrendering skin sparing. A spoiler will increase the contribution of scattered medium energy electrons and photons, thereby increasing superficial dosing and maintaining skin sparing due to displacement of the spoiler from the skin. We chose Lucite as the spoiler material for our 18-MV beam. Buildup measurements were performed with a parallel-plate ionization chamber to find the optimal spoiler thickness of 18 mm at a spoiler-to-skin distance of 22 cm. A breast phantom was designed allowing thermoluminescent dosimeter measurements. The spoiler has increased the percent depth dose from the depths of 0.5 cm to 3.0 cm to mimic those delivered by a 6 MV beam, while the relative skin dose was held to 50%. Our treatment schema is typically 6-MV photons with customized compensation for half or more of the fractions and uncompensated 18-MV photons with the spoiler for the remaining fractions. The spoiler may be used in conjunction with thin bolus (1.0 cm) for therapeutic dosing to the skin (scars, inflammatory disease, etc.). The treatment plans have maintained dose homogeneity for large patients, without consequence of skin reaction."	1995	Summer	20	2	89-94	7632350	0
464	"Ko, K"	Function and glycosylation of plant-derived antiviral monoclonal antibody	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"Plant genetic engineering led to the production of plant-derived mAb (mAbP), which provides a safe and economically feasible alternative to the current methods of antibody production in animal systems. In this study, the heavy and light chains of human anti-rabies mAb were expressed and assembled in planta under the control of two strong constitutive promoters. An alfalfa mosaic virus untranslated leader sequence and Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu (KDEL) endoplasmic reticulum retention signal were linked at the N and C terminus of the heavy chain, respectively. mAbP was as effective at neutralizing the activity of the rabies virus as the mammalian-derived antibody (mAbM) or human rabies Ig (HRIG). The mAbP contained mainly oligomannose type N-glycans (90%) and had no potentially antigenic alpha(1,3)-linked fucose residues. mAbP had a shorter half-life than mAbM. The mAbP was as efficient as HRIG for post-exposure prophylaxis against rabies virus in hamsters, indicating that differences in N-glycosylation do not affect the efficacy of the antibody in this model."	2003	Jun-24	100	13	8013-8	12799460	0
465	"Kolatkar, AR"	Mechanism of N-acetylgalactosamine binding to a C-type animal lectin carbohydrate-recognition domain	J Biol Chem	"The mammalian hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor, a member of the C-type animal lectin family, displays preferential binding to N-acetylgalactosamine compared with galactose. The structural basis for selective binding to N-acetylgalactosamine has been investigated. Regions of the carbohydrate-recognition domain of the receptor believed to be important in preferential binding to N-acetylgalactosamine have been inserted into the homologous carbohydrate-recognition domain of a mannose-binding protein mutant that was previously altered to bind galactose. Introduction of a single histidine residue corresponding to residue 256 of the hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor was found to cause a 14-fold increase in the relative affinity for N-acetylgalactosamine compared with galactose. The relative ability of various acyl derivatives of galactosamine to compete for binding to this modified carbohydrate-recognition domain suggest that it is a good model for the natural N-acetylgalactosamine binding site of the asialoglycoprotein receptor. Crystallographic analysis of this mutant carbohydrate-recognition domain in complex with N-acetylgalactosamine reveals a direct interaction between the inserted histidine residue and the methyl group of the N-acetyl substituent of the sugar. Evidence for the role of the side chain at position 208 of the receptor in positioning this key histidine residue was obtained from structural analysis and mutagenesis experiments. The corresponding serine residue in the modified carbohydrate-recognition domain of mannose-binding protein forms a hydrogen bond to the imidazole side chain. When this serine residue is changed to valine, loss in selectivity for N-acetylgalactosamine is observed. The structure of this mutant reveals that the beta-branched valine side chain interacts directly with the histidine side chain, resulting in an altered imidazole ring orientation."	1998	Jul-31	273	31	19502-8	9677372	0
466	"Kong, FM"	"The impact of central lung distance, maximal heart distance, and radiation technique on the volumetric dose of the lung and heart for intact breast radiation"	Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys	"PURPOSE: To investigate the impact of radiographic parameter and radiation technique on the volumetric dose of lung and heart for intact breast radiation. METHODS AND MATERIALS: Forty patients with both two-dimensional (2D) and computed tomographic (CT) simulations were enrolled in the study. Central lung distance (CLD), maximal heart distance (MHD), and maximal heart length (MHL) were measured under virtual simulation. Four plans were compared for each patient. Plan A used a traditional 2D tangential setup. Plan B used clinical target volume (CTV) based three-dimensional (3D) planning. Both plans C and D used a combination of a medial breast field with shallow tangents. Plan D is a further modification of plan C. RESULTS: Under the traditional tangential setup, the mean ipsilateral lung dose and volume at 20, 30, and 40 Gy correlated linearly with CLD (R = 0.85 approximately 0.91). The mean ipsilateral lung dose (Gy) approximated 4 times the CLD value (cm), whereas the percentage volume (%) of ipsilateral lung at 20, 30, and 40 Gy was about 10 times the CLD (cm). The mean heart dose and percentage volume at 20, 30, and 40 Gy correlated with MHD (R = 0.76 approximately 0.80) and MHL (R = 0.65 approximately 0.75). The mean heart dose (Gy) approximated 3 times the MHD value (cm), and the percentage volume (%) of the heart at 10, 20, 30, and 40 Gy was about 6 times MHD (cm). Radiation technique impacted lung and heart dose. The 3D tangential plan (plan B) failed to reduce the volumetric dose of lung and heart from that of the 2D plan (plan A). The medial breast techniques (plans C and D) significantly decreased the volume of lung and heart receiving high doses (30 and 40 Gy). Plan D further decreased the 20 Gy volumes. By use of the medial breast technique, the lung and heart dose were not impacted by original CLD and MHD/MHL. Therefore, the improvement from the tangential technique was more remarkable for patients with CLD >or= 3.0 cm (p < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The CLD and MHD impact the volumetric dose of lung and heart. The application of 3D planning for tangential breast irradiation does not decrease heart and lung dose. Adding a medial breast port significantly decreases percentage volume (PV) of lung and heart receiving high doses, especially when the CLD is excessive."	2002	Nov-01	54	3	963-71	12377351	0
467	"Krishnasami, Z"	Management of hemodialysis catheter-related bacteremia with an adjunctive antibiotic lock solution	Kidney Int	"BACKGROUND: Tunneled dialysis catheters are complicated by frequent systemic infections. Standard therapy of catheter-associated bacteremia involves both systemic antibiotics and catheter replacement. Recent data suggest that biofilms in the catheter lumen are responsible for the bacteremia, and that instillation of an antibiotic lock (highly concentrated antibiotic solution) into the catheter lumen after dialysis sessions can eradicate the biofilm. METHODS: We analyzed prospectively the efficacy of an antibiotic lock protocol, in conjunction with systemic antibiotics, for treatment of patients with dialysis catheter-associated bacteremia without catheter removal. Protocol success was defined as resolution of fever and negative surveillance cultures one week following completion of the protocol. Protocol failure was defined as persistence of fever or surveillance cultures positive for any pathogen. In addition, infection-free catheter survival was compared to that observed in institutional historical control patients treated with catheter replacement. RESULTS: Blood cultures were positive in 98 of 129 of episodes (76%) in which patients dialyzing with a catheter had fever or chills. Protocol success occurred in 40 of 79 infected patients (51%) treated with the antibiotic lock. Protocol failure occurred in 39 cases (49%): 7 had persistent fever, 15 had positive surveillance cultures (9 for Candida and 6 for bacteria), and 17 required catheter removal due to malfunction. Each of the pathogens in the surveillance cultures was different from the original pathogen in that patient. Eight of the 9 secondary Candida infections and all 6 secondary bacterial infections resolved after catheter exchange and specific antimicrobial treatment. Overall catheter survival with the antibiotic lock protocol was similar to that observed among patients managed with catheter replacement (median survival, 64 vs. 54 days, P = 0.24). CONCLUSIONS: Use of an antibiotic lock, in conjunction with systemic antibiotic therapy, can eradicate catheter-associated bacteremia while salvaging the catheter in about one half of cases. Moreover, this management approach offers clinical advantages over routine catheter exchange."	2002	Mar	61	3	1136-42	11849468	0
468	"Kuster, B"	Rapid approach for sequencing neutral oligosaccharides by exoglycosidase digestion and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry	J Mass Spectrom	"A new way of combining exoglycosidase digestion with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI/TOF-MS) is described which permits the structural characterization of underivatized oligosaccharides on low picomole amounts of starting material. The key feature of the new approach is that an oligosaccharide sample can be recovered after a MALDI experiment and a series of sequential exoglycosidase digestions can be carried out on that sample within a single working day. The following steps are involved: (i) recording a molecular mass profile of the starting material by MALDI/TOF-MS using a mixture of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 1-hydroxyisoquinoline as the matrix; (ii) recovery of the sample from the target and removal of the matrix by droplet dialysis (molecular mass cut-off 500 Da); (iii) exoglycosidase digestion in a volume of 1 microliter; (iv) removal of the incubation buffer by droplet dialysis; (v) removal of the enzyme by absorption on a Nafion membrane and (vi) start of the next cycle from (i). The method exhibits the following advantages over traditional oligosaccharide sequencing techniques: (i) analysis of digestion products by MALDI/TOF-MS is much faster than by chromatographic techniques; (ii) no derivatization of the analyte is required; (iii) exoglycosidase digestions work faster in small reaction volumes because substrate concentrations are closer to the Km of the enzyme; (iv) advanced sample handling techniques ensure reduced losses and (v) no sample splitting is needed for analysis and therefore the sensitivity of the overall method is increased. The method is illustrated by the analysis of isolated glycans and complex mixtures derived from chicken ovalbumin and human immunoglobulin G."	1996	Oct	31	10	1131-40	8916422	0
469	"Kuster, B"	Effect of the reducing-terminal substituents on the high energy collision-induced dissociation matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectra of oligosaccharides	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"High-energy collision-induced dissociation (CID) matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectra of N-linked oligosaccharides bearing different, commonly encountered, reducing terminal modifications (hydroxyl, 2-aminobenzamide, asparagine and a tetrapeptide) were recorded on a magnetic sector instrument equipped with an orthogonal-acceleration time-of-flight (OA-TOF) analyser. All the compounds formed abundant molecular (MNa+) and fragment ions, the latter corresponding to glycosidic and cross-ring cleavages as well as to internal fragment ions, all of which provided much insight into the oligosaccharide structure. The nature of the modification considerably influenced the CID behaviour. The strongest and most complete series of glycosidic cleavage ions (mainly Y and B--Domon and Costello nomenclature) was formed by the underivatized oligosaccharide whereas most cross-ring fragment ions, diagnostic of linkage, were found in the spectra of the glycopeptides. A-type cross-ring cleavage ions were particularly abundant in the spectrum of the asparagine derivative. Reductive amination using 2-aminobenzamide resulted in an opened reducing-terminal sugar ring and suppression of the cross-ring fragment ions carrying information associated with that ring. This information was present in the spectra of the free carbohydrate and the peptide derivatives."	1996		10	13	1645-51	8914337	0
470	"Kuster, B"	Sequencing of N-linked oligosaccharides directly from protein gels: in-gel deglycosylation followed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry and normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography	Anal Biochem	"A generally applicable, rapid, and sensitive method for profiling and sequencing of glycoprotein-associated N-linked oligosaccharides from protein gels was developed. The method employed sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) for protein separation and purification and in-gel deglycosylation using PNGase F for glycan release. Profiles of the neutral glycans from bovine ribonuclease B, chicken ovalbumin, and human immunoglobulin G (IgG), as well as sialic acid-containing sugars (following esterification of the acidic groups) of bovine fetuin and bovine alpha1-acid glycoprotein, were obtained by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI MS) and by normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography following fluorescent labeling. Oligosaccharides were sequenced using specific exoglycosidases, and digestion products were analyzed by MALDI MS. Between 50 and 100 pmol (1.5 to 15 microg) of glycoprotein applied to the gel was sufficient to characterize its oligosaccharide contents. The identity of all glycoproteins investigated could be confirmed after deglycosylation by in-gel trypsin treatment followed by MALDI MS mass mapping and matching the measured molecular weights to a sequence database. The technique was used for the characterization of the glycan moieties of human immunodeficiency virus recombinant gp120 (Chinese hamster ovary cells) and to monitor changes in the glycosylation of this glycoprotein when produced in the presence of a glucosidase I inhibitor. Furthermore, since heavy and light chains of IgG became separated by SDS-PAGE, it could be established that most glycans were associated with the heavy chains."	1997	Jul-15	250	1	82-101	9234902	0
471	"Kuster, B and Harvey, DJ"	Ammonium containing buffers should be avoided during enzymatic release of glycans from glycoproteins when followed by reducing terminal derivatization	Glycobiology		1997	Mar	7	2	vii-ix	9134420	0
472	"Kuster, B"	Structural determination of N-linked carbohydrates by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-mass spectrometry following enzymatic release within sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide electrophoresis gels: application to species-specific glycosylati	Electrophoresis	"This paper describes a sensitive method for analysis of N-linked carbohydrates released enzymatically from within the gel following separation of glycoproteins (50-100 pmols) by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). The separated bands containing the glycoproteins were cut from the gel, destained, reduced and alkylated. N-linked glycans were then released by in-gel incubation with peptide N-glycosidase-F (PNGase-F) and extracted with water and acetonitrile. Sialic acid-containing glycans were converted into methyl esters by reaction with methyl iodide, salts and reagents were removed by passage through a mixed-bed column of ion-exchange resins and the glycans were examined by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI)-mass spectrometry. Structural determination of the released glycans was performed by exoglycosidase digestion. Following glycan release and extraction, the protein could be digested within the gel with trypsin, and the masses of the tryptic peptides could be compared with those generated from a sequence database for protein identification. The method is applied to the analysis of N-linked glycans from alpha1-acid glycoprotein from man, cow, sheep and dog. Major species-specific differences in glycosylation were found. Thus, although all four species used N-acetyl-neuraminic acid, only cow and sheep additionally used N-glycolyl-neuraminic acid. Biantennary glycans were the predominant carbohydrates in cow, sheep and dog but man produced more triantennary glycans and a substantial amount of tetraantennary sugars. Fucosylation was only found in glycans from man and cow and both cow and sheep glycans were found to have beta1-3- and well as beta1-4-linked galactose residues in the antennae."	1998	Aug	19	11	1950-9	9740055	0
473	"Kuster, B"	Glycosylation analysis of gel-separated proteins	Proteomics	"Beyond the identification of proteins involved in a particular physiological situation, many aspects of proteomics require more detailed characterization of the proteins involved. Post-translational modifications (PTMs) of proteins are a common means to target proteins, regulate their activities and to mediate communication between proteins and cells. Owing to the much higher analytical complexity of glycan analysis compared to e.g. protein identification, PTM analysis in general and glycosylation analysis in particular is largely neglected in proteomics. In this review, the current technological status of global and site-specific glycosylation analysis of gel-separated proteins is described and the way in which the available technology can be employed in proteomics is critically discussed."	2001	Feb	1	2	350-61	11680881	0
474	"Lachmann, RH and Platt, FM"	Substrate reduction therapy for glycosphingolipid storage disorders	Expert Opin Investig Drugs	"Substrate reduction therapy is a novel approach to treating glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage disorders. These diseases are caused by mutations in the genes coding for enzymes involved in GSL catabolism and are characterised by the accumulation of GSL substrates within the lysosomes of cells. The aim of substrate reduction therapy is to inhibit the rate of synthesis of GSLs to levels where the residual activity of the mutant catabolic enzyme is sufficient to prevent pathological storage. In this review we discuss the development of N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), an imino sugar that inhibits the ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase which catalyses the first committed step of GSL synthesis. This agent has been shown to slow accumulation of stored glycolipid in an in vitro model of Gaucher's disease and in knockout mouse models of Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff diseases. Furthermore, administration of NB-DNJ to Sandhoff mice delays the onset of neurological disease and also slows its progression. We discuss safety and efficacy data from the clinical trial of substrate reduction with NB-DNJ which has been undertaken in patients with Type 1 Gaucher's disease. This trial provides a proof-of-principle for the use of this approach in a wide range of GSL lysosomal storage diseases."	2001	Mar	10	3	455-66	11227045	0
475	"Lachmann, RH"	Treatment with miglustat reverses the lipid-trafficking defect in Niemann-Pick disease type C	Neurobiol Dis	"Niemann-Pick disease type C (NP-C) is a hereditary neurovisceral lipid storage disorder. Although traditionally considered a primary cholesterol storage disorder, a variety of glycolipids accumulate in NP-C cells, which resemble those from glycosphingolipidosis patients. Substrate reduction therapy (SRT) with miglustat, an inhibitor of glycosphingolipid biosynthesis, is a novel therapy for the glycosphingolipidoses. We report the use of SRT in a patient with NP-C. We show that depletion of glycosphingolipids by miglustat treatment reduces pathological lipid storage, improves endosomal uptake and normalises lipid trafficking in peripheral blood B lymphocytes. The demonstration that treatment with miglustat, which has no direct effect on cholesterol metabolism, corrects the abnormal lipid trafficking seen in B lymphocytes in NP-C indicates that glycosphingolipid accumulation is the primary pathogenetic event in NP-C. These observations support the use of SRT in patients with this devastating neurodegenerative disease."	2004	Aug	16	3	654-8	15262277	0
476	"Lang, W"	"Solubility of NH3 and apparent pK of NH4+ in human plasma, isotonic salt solutions and water at 37 degrees C"	Clin Chim Acta	"The solubility of ammonia, alphaNH3 (mM/mmHg), was determined at 37 degrees C and low ammonia partial pressure (0.02-1 mmHg) in pure water (n =24) as 46.70+/-0.40; aqueous isotonic salt solutions (n = 7) as 46.8+/-0.81; and human plasma (n = 5) as 42.0+/-0.66. The last figure increases to 45.3+/-0.63 if expressed in molal units (mmol/kg plasma water x mmHg) instead of molarity with respect to the water content of the plasma (mean from four healthy and fasting donors: 0.908+0.005 kg H2O/kg plasma; mean density at 37 degrees C: 1.020+/-0.002 kg/l). In pure water, the solubility value is the mean of three different methods: (a) extrapolation of the salting-out effect of ammonia in aqueous NaOH to zero concentration; (b) slope of Henry-Dalton's law and (c) directly measured in pure water and 0.001 M aqueous NaOH. Based on the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation for the system NH4/NH3 in isotonic salt solutions and human plasma, both constants, apparent pK and solubility, can be derived from total ammonia concentration and pH at equilibrium with defined ammonia gas phase, if additionally the concentration of NH4 or NH3 is known. This was verified, in the first case, by determining the concentration of NH4+ by the experimental conditions, and in the second, by two measurements of total ammonia concentration at two different pH values. Total ammonia concentration was measured by a specific enzymatic standard test and pH with the glass electrode. The mean apparent pK was 8.968+/-0.013 in isotonic salt solutions (n = 7), and in human plasma (n = 10) it was 9.014+/-0.033."	1998	May-08	273	1	43-58	9620469	0
477	"Lazar, C"	The pestivirus E(rns) glycoprotein interacts with E2 in both infected cells and mature virions	Virology	"E(rns) is a pestivirus envelope glycoprotein indispensable for virus attachment and infection of target cells. Unlike the other two envelope proteins E1 and E2, E(rns) lacks a transmembrane domain and a vast quantity is secreted into the medium of infected cells. The protein is also present in fractions of pure pestivirus virions, raising the important and intriguing question regarding the mechanism of its attachment to the pestivirus envelope. In this study a direct interaction between E(rns) and E2 glycoproteins was demonstrated in both pestivirus-infected cells and mature virions. By co- and sequential immunoprecipitation we showed that an E(rns)-E2 heterodimer is assembled very early after translation of the viral polyprotein and before its processing is completed. Our results suggest that E(rns) is attached to the pestivirus envelope via a direct interaction with E2 and explain the role of E(rns) in the initial virus-target cell interaction."	2003	Sep-30	314	2	696-705	14554096	0
478	"Leatherbarrow, RJ"	Role of tyrosines in the combining site of the dinitrophenyl-binding IgA myeloma M315: specific nitration and high-resolution hydrogen-1 nuclear magnetic resonance studies	Biochemistry		1982	Oct-12	21	21	5124-9	7171542	0
479	"Leatherbarrow, RJ and Dwek, RA"	The effect of aglycosylation on the binding of mouse IgG to staphylococcal protein A	FEBS Lett	Aglycosylated IgG produced by hybridoma cells cultured in the presence of tunicamycin was compared with normal IgG for its ability to bind to staphylococcal protein A. No differences were found in binding or elution profiles. It is concluded that aglycosylation does not produce major structural alterations at the CH2-CH3 interface of the Fc region of IgG.	1983	Dec-12	164	2	227-30	6653789	0
480	"Leatherbarrow, RJ and Dwek, RA"	"Binding of complement subcomponent C1q to mouse IgG1, IgG2a and IgG2b: a novel C1q binding assay"	Mol Immunol	"A C1q binding assay is presented which is suitable for use in comparison of the binding ability of different antibodies, and which allows the quantitative determination of their binding constants. The assay system uses IgG bound to a hapten-derivatized Affigel support. No non-specific binding is observed to a DNP-derivatized support, allowing the use of anti-DNP antibodies. With mouse anti-DNP hybridoma IgGs it was found that C1q binding followed the series IgG2a greater than IgG2b much greater than IgG1, in accordance with the complement fixing ability of these subclasses. Since it is relatively simple to couple any antigen to Affigel , this assay system should be generally applicable to any antibody-antigen system."	1984	Apr	21	4	321-7	6610105	0
481	"Leatherbarrow, RJ"	Effector functions of a monoclonal aglycosylated mouse IgG2a: binding and activation of complement component C1 and interaction with human monocyte Fc receptor	Mol Immunol	"Aglycosylated monoclonal anti-DNP mouse IgG2a produced in the presence of tunicamycin was compared with the native monoclonal IgG2a with respect to its ability to interact with the first component of complement, C1, and to compete with human IgG for binding to human monocyte Fc receptors. The aglycosylated IgG2a was found to bind subcomponent C1q with an equivalent capacity to the native IgG2a, but the dissociation constant was found to be increased three-fold. When activation of C1 by the glycosylated and aglycosylated IgG2a was compared, the rate of C1 activation by the aglycosylated IgG2a was reduced approximately three-fold. In contrast aglycosylation was accompanied by a large decrease (greater than or equal to 50-fold) in the apparent binding constant of monomeric IgG2a to human monocytes. The data suggest that the aglycosylated IgG2a has a structure which differs in the CH2 domain from the native IgG2a, and that the heterogeneous N-linked oligosaccharides of this monoclonal IgG2a which occur at a conserved position in the CH2 domain play a role in maintaining the integrity of its monocyte-binding site. This lack of monocyte binding may result either from a localized conformational change occurring in a single CH2 domain or from an alteration in the CH2-CH2 cross-domain architecture which is normally structured by a pair of opposing and interacting oligosaccharides. The minimal changes in C1q binding and C1 activation suggest that the oligosaccharides are, at most, indirectly involved in these events."	1985	Apr	22	4	407-15	4033665	0
482	"Lee, RT"	Ligand-binding characteristics of rat serum-type mannose-binding protein (MBP-A). Homology of binding site architecture with mammalian and chicken hepatic lectins	J Biol Chem	"Sugar-binding characteristics of rat serum mannose-binding protein (MBP) were studied using the carbohydrate-recognition domain of this protein expressed from a cloned cDNA. To assess the binding affinity of various test compounds, they were added as inhibitors in a binding assay in which 125I-MBP was incubated with yeast cells and the extent of binding was estimated from the radioactivity associated with the pelleted cells. The results of such inhibition assays suggest that MBP has a small binding site which is probably of the trough-type. The 3- and 4-OH of the target sugar are indispensable, while the 6-OH is not required. These characteristics are shared by the rat hepatic lectin and chicken hepatic lectin, both of which are C-type lectins containing carbohydrate-recognition domains highly homologous to that of MBP. Apparently, the related primary structures of these lectins give rise to similar gross architecture of their binding sites, despite the fact that each exhibits different sugar binding specificities."	1991	Mar-15	266	8	4810-5	2002028	0
483	"Lee, RT"	Multivalent ligand binding by serum mannose-binding protein	Arch Biochem Biophys	"The serum-type mannose-binding protein (MBP) is a defense molecule that has carbohydrate-dependent bactericidal effects. It shares with mammalian and chicken hepatic lectins similarity in the primary structure of the carbohydrate-recognition domain, as well as the ligand-binding mode: a high affinity (KD approximately nM) is generated by clustering of approximately 30 terminal target sugar residues on a macromolecule, such as bovine serum albumin, although the individual monosaccharides have low affinity (KD 0.1-1 mM). On the other hand, MBP does not manifest any significant affinity enhancement toward small, di- and trivalent ligands, in contrast to the hepatic lectins whose affinity toward divalent ligands of comparable structures increased from 100- to 1000-fold. Such differences may be explained on the basis of different subunit organization between the hepatic lectins and MBP."	1992	Nov-15	299	1	129-36	1280063	0
484	"Lee, HK"	"Reactivity-based one-pot synthesis of oligomannoses: defining antigens recognized by 2G12, a broadly neutralizing anti-HIV-1 antibody"	Angew Chem Int Ed Engl		2004	Feb-13	43	8	1000-3	14966891	0
485	"Leung, JO"	Characterization of the gene encoding the major rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor	J Biol Chem	"A cloned cDNA encoding the major rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor has been used to analyze the gene for this protein. Genomic Southern blot analysis reveals that the gene is contained on a single EcoRI restriction fragment and is unique. A clone containing the gene (isolated from a rat liver genomic library) has been characterized by sequence analysis. The mRNA for the receptor is encoded by nine exons separated by eight introns. The first exon is confined to the 5'-untranslated region of the mRNA, the second exon encodes most of the cytoplasmic NH2-terminal domain of the receptor polypeptide, the third exon corresponds to the hydrophobic transmembrane portion of the polypeptide, and the remaining exons encode the extracellular parts of the receptor. Some, but not all, of the divisions between exons correspond to boundaries between functional domains of the polypeptide."	1985	Oct-15	260	23	12523-7	2995379	0
486	"Leuschner, JT"	The partitioning of delta 1-tetrahydrocannabinol into erythrocyte membranes in vivo and its effect on membrane fluidity	Experientia	delta 1-Tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 1-THC) has been quantified directly in erythrocyte membranes from drug-treated mice using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Concentrations of approximately 6 ng delta 1-THC/mg membrane protein (10(-5) M) were found when effects of the drug on behavior were prevalent. At these concentrations the drug produced a decrease in membrane order as measured by ESR.	1984	Aug-15	40	8	866-8	6088277	0
487	"Leuschner, JT"	Pharmacokinetics of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol in rabbits following single or multiple intravenous doses	Drug Metab Dispos	"The pharmacokinetics of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 9-THC) has been studied in rabbits under conditions of single or multiple administration. Measurement of the drug was by a sensitive GC/MS technique using metastable ion monitoring and capable of measuring 0.005 ng/ml of the drug in plasma. This method enabled measurements of the drug to be made for 8-10 days after a single iv dose of 1 mg/kg of delta 9-THC and for 26 days following treatment for 22 days with the same dose. Plasma concentration-time data were analyzed by least squares nonlinear regression with the program NONLIN and terminal half-lives in the range 30-66 hr [mean 47.1 +/- 3.5 (SE), n = 8] were found after acute drug treatment. These increased to 74.6 +/- 1.7 hr (n = 4) after an 8-day treatment and to 83.0 hr after the 22-day treatment. Plasma clearance values were high, but the large amount of drug sequestered in tissues, reflected by large volumes of distribution, was the main determinant of terminal half-life. Measurements of the drug in several tissues indicated that fat was the major site of sequestration. The relative concentrations of delta 9-THC in the various tissues were similar to those observed for other lipophilic compounds, suggesting that distribution of delta 9-THC is governed by its physicochemical properties and not by any active transport process or specific barriers."	1986	Mar-Apr	14	2	230-8	2870899	0
488	"Loeb, JA and Drickamer, K"	The chicken receptor for endocytosis of glycoproteins contains a cluster of N-acetylglucosamine-binding sites	J Biol Chem	"The oligomeric state of the chicken hepatic receptor for N-acetylglucosamine-terminated glycoproteins (the chicken hepatic lectin) has been examined in detergent solution, in various membrane preparations, and in hepatocytes. In detergent solution, the cross-linking reagent, 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene produces covalent complexes containing up to six receptor polypeptides. This result, along with hydrodynamic studies of the receptor-detergent complex, indicates that the purified receptor is a hexamer. Analysis of large proteolytic fragments of the receptor reveals that portions of the receptor polypeptide near the membrane anchor are essential for hexamer stability. This analysis also demonstrates that each receptor polypeptide has an N-acetylglucosamine-binding site, indicating that the native hexameric receptor contains a cluster of six such sites. Immunoblot analysis of membrane fractions and cells cross-linked with 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or dimethyl adipimidate reveals that the receptor is also oligomeric in intact cells and in subcellular fractions representing cell surface and internalized receptor. Although the pattern of cross-linking observed in membranes differs from that observed with purified receptor, experiments indicate that the differences may be explained by the presence of membrane components which compete with receptor for reaction with cross-linking reagent. The presence of a cluster of carbohydrate-binding sites in the hepatocyte membrane can account for the preferential endocytosis of multivalent glycoprotein ligands by hepatocytes."	1987	Mar-05	262	7	3022-9	3818631	0
489	"Loeb, JA and Drickamer, K"	Conformational changes in the chicken receptor for endocytosis of glycoproteins. Modulation of ligand-binding activity by Ca2+ and pH	J Biol Chem	"Limited proteolysis, gel filtration, and circular dichroism have been used to identify at least three distinct conformational states of a proteolytic fragment containing the ligand-binding domain of the chicken receptor for endocytosis of glycoproteins. Differences in the ligand-binding activity of intact receptor brought about by changing Ca2+ concentrations and pH values can be correlated with different physical states of the binding domain present under similar conditions. An active, ligand-binding state can be detected at either pH 7.8 or 5.4, but 10-fold higher concentrations of Ca2+ are required to stabilize this state at the lower pH. In all cases, the dependence on Ca2+ concentration is second-order, suggesting that two Ca2+ ions are bound to each domain. These studies demonstrate an interdependence between the effects of Ca2+ concentration and pH on both ligand-binding activity and receptor conformation, which is important to consider when describing the binding and dissociation of ligand during endocytosis."	1988	Jul-15	263	20	9752-60	3290213	0
490	"Loutsch, JM"	Identical 371-base-pair deletion mutations in the LAT genes of herpes simplex virus type 1 McKrae and 17syn+ result in different in vivo reactivation phenotypes	J Virol	"The herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) LAT gene is the only viral gene abundantly transcribed during latency. LAT null mutants created with strains McKrae and 17syn+ are impaired for both in vivo spontaneous and in vivo-induced reactivation. Thus, LAT is essential for efficient in vivo-induced and spontaneous reactivation. Different investigators have studied two LAT mutants containing a StyI-StyI region deletion corresponding to LAT nucleotides 76 to 447. One mutant, dLAT371 (parent strain, McKrae), had parental high frequencies of spontaneous reactivation. In vivo-induced reactivation was not examined. The other mutant, 17DeltaSty (parent strain, 17syn+), had parental frequencies of in vitro reactivation following cocultivation of explanted ganglia but reduced frequencies of in vivo-induced reactivation. Spontaneous reactivation frequency was not reported for 17DeltaSty. These combined results suggested the possibility that in vivo spontaneous reactivation and in vivo-induced reactivation may map to different regions within the LAT domain. We now report that dLAT371 has in vivo-induced reactivation frequencies of the parent and that 17DeltaSty has reduced frequencies of in vivo spontaneous reactivation. Thus, dLAT371 demonstrated the parental phenotype for both in vivo spontaneous and -induced reactivation while the apparently identical 17DeltaSty was impaired for both in vivo spontaneous and -induced reactivation. These results suggest that one or more differences between the genetic backgrounds of McKrae and 17syn+ result in different in vivo reactivation phenotypes of otherwise identical deletion mutations and that McKrae may have compensating sequences sufficient to overcome the loss of the StyI-StyI region of the LAT transcript."	1999	Jan	73	1	767-71	9847385	0
491	"Lowe, JP"	MRS reveals additional hexose N-acetyl resonances in the brain of a mouse model for Sandhoff disease	NMR Biomed	"Sandhoff disease, one of several related lysosomal storage disorders, results from the build up of N-acetyl-containing glycosphingolipids in the brain and is caused by mutations in the genes encoding the hexosaminidase beta-subunit. Affected individuals undergo progressive neurodegeneration in response to the glycosphingolipid storage. (1)H magnetic resonance spectra of perchloric acid extracts of Sandhoff mouse brain exhibited several resonances ca 2.07 ppm that were not present in the corresponding spectra from extracts of wild-type mouse brain. High-performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry of the Sandhoff extracts post-MRS identified the presence of N-acetylhexosamine-containing oligosaccharides, which are the likely cause of the additional MRS resonances. MRS of intact brain tissue with magic angle spinning also showed additional resonances at ca 2.07 ppm in the Sandhoff case. These resonances appeared to increase with disease progression and probably arise, for the most part, from the stored glycosphingolipids, which are absent in the aqueous extracts. Hence in vivo MRS may be a useful tool for detecting early-stage Sandhoff disease and response to treatment."	2005	Dec	18	8	517-26	16206131	0
492	"Lu, X"	Protease-induced infectivity of hepatitis B virus for a human hepatoblastoma cell line	J Virol	"The human hepatoblastoma cell line HepG2 produces and secretes hepatitis B virus (HBV) after transfection of cloned HBV DNA. Intact virions do not infect these cells, although they attach to the surface of the HepG2 cell through binding sites in the pre-S1 domain. Entry of enveloped virions into the cell often requires proteolytic cleavage of a viral surface protein that is involved in fusion between the cell membrane and the viral envelope. Recently, we observed pre-S-independent, nonspecific binding between hepatitis B surface (HBs) particles and HepG2 cells after treatment of HBs antigen particles with V8 protease, which cleaves next to a putative fusion sequence. Chymotrypsin removed this fusion sequence and did not induce binding. In this study, we postulate that lack of a suitable fusion-activating protease was the reason why the HepG2 cells were not susceptible to HBV. To test this hypothesis, virions were partially purified from the plasma of HBV carriers and treated with either staphylococcal V8 or porcine chymotrypsin protease. Protease-digested virus lost reactivity with pre-S2-specific antibody but remained morphologically intact as determined by electron microscopy. After separation from the proteases, virions were incubated with HepG2 cells at pH 5.5. Cultures inoculated with either intact or chymotrypsin-digested virus did not contain detectable levels of intracellular HBV DNA at any time following infection. However, in cultures inoculated with V8-digested virions, HBV-specific products, including covalently closed circular DNA, viral RNA, and viral pre-S2 antigen, could be detected in a time-dependent manner following infection. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed that 10 to 30% of the infected HepG2 cells produced HBV antigen. Persistent secretion of virus by the infected HepG2 cells lasted at least 14 days and was maintained during several reseeding steps. The results show that V8-digested HBV can productively infect tissue cultures of HepG2 cells. It is suggested that proteolysis-dependent exposure of a fusion domain within the envelope protein of HBV is necessary during natural infection."	1996	Apr	70	4	2277-85	8642654	0
493	"Lu, X"	Aberrant trafficking of hepatitis B virus glycoproteins in cells in which N-glycan processing is inhibited	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"The role of N-glycan trimming in glycoprotein fate and function is unclear. We have recently shown that hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA is not efficiently secreted from cells in which alpha-glucosidase mediated N-glycan trimming is inhibited. Here it is shown that, in cells in glucosidase-inhibited cells, viral DNA, accompanied by envelope and core proteins, most likely accumulate within lysosomal compartments. Pulse-chase experiments show that although the viral glycoproteins (L, M, and S) are dysfunctional, in the sense that they do not mediate virion egress and are not efficiently secreted from the cell, they all still leave the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Surprisingly, however, the glycoproteins retained within the cell were not rapidly degraded, appearing as aggregates, enriched for L and M, with intracellular half-lives exceeding 20 h. Moreover, by 24 h after synthesis, a substantial fraction of the detained glycoproteins appeared to return to the ER, although a considerable amount was also found in the lysosomes. To our knowledge, this is the first report that shows, as a consequence of inhibiting glycosylation processing, certain glycoproteins (i) become dysfunctional and aggregate, yet still depart from the ER, and (ii) have extended rather than shortened half-lives. Taken together, these data suggest that proper intracellular routing of HBV glycoproteins requires ER glucosidase function. It is hypothesized that failure to process N-glycan causes HBV glycoproteins to aggregate and that impaired protein-protein interactions and trafficking are the result of misfolding."	1997	Mar-18	94	6	2380-5	9122203	0
494	"Lu, X"	Hepatitis B virus MHBs antigen is selectively sensitive to glucosidase-mediated processing in the endoplasmic reticulum	DNA Cell Biol	"Previous studies have shown that hepatitis B virus (HBV) secretion from HepG 2.2.15 cells is prevented by inhibitors of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) glucosidase under conditions where secretion of cellular glycoproteins are not detectably affected. The 2.2.15 cells are derived from HepG2 and contain intact dimers of the viral genome. They produce and secrete infectious HBV. The secretion of the viral envelope polypeptide, MHBs, was selectively and quantitatively reduced from 2.2.15 cells in which glucosidase was inhibited, whereas the envelope polypeptide, SHBs, was relatively insensitive, being as resistant as were most host glycoproteins. Because 2.2.15 cells express all HBV ORFs, it seemed possible that the sensitivity of MHBs secretion involved its interaction with the viral nucleocapsid or other viral gene products. The work reported here showed that MHBs secretion from HepG2 cells transfected with a plasmid that expresses only the MHBs polypeptide was as sensitive to glucosidase inhibitors as it was from 2.2.15 cells. These data show that the sensitivity of the MHBs polypeptide secretion to glucosidase inhibitors is entirely encrypted within its structural gene. The reasons the MHBs polypeptide, but not SHBs, is so sensitive to glucosidase processing are discussed."	2001	Oct	20	10	647-56	11749723	0
495	"Lu, X"	"The alkylated imino sugar, n-(n-Nonyl)-deoxygalactonojirimycin, reduces the amount of hepatitis B virus nucleocapsid in tissue culture"	J Virol	"n-(n-Nonyl)-deoxygalactonojirimycin (n,n-DGJ), an alkylated imino sugar, reduces the amount of HBV DNA produced within the stably transfected HBV-producing HepG2.2.15 line in culture and is under consideration for development as a human therapeutic. n,n-DGJ does not appear to inhibit HBV DNA polymerase activity or envelop antigen production (A. Mehta, S. Carrouee, B. Conyers, R. Jordan, T. Butters, R. A. Dwek, and T. M. Block, Hepatology 33:1488-1495, 2001), and the mechanism of antiviral action is unknown. In this study, the step in the virus life cycle affected by n,n-DGJ was explored. Using Northern analysis and immunoprecipitation with anti-HBc antibody, we found that, under conditions in which cell viability was not affected but viral DNA production was substantially reduced, neither the amount of HBV transcription products nor the core polypeptide was detectably reduced. However, the pregenomic RNA, endogenous polymerase activity, and core polypeptide sedimenting in sucrose gradients with a density consistent with that of assembled nucleocapsids were significantly less in the HepG2.2.15 cells incubated with n,n-DGJ. These data suggest that n,n-DGJ either prevents the maturation of HBV nucleocapsids or destabilizes the formed nucleocapsids. Although the cellular and viral mediators of this inhibition are not known, depletion of nucleocapsid has been attributed to some other compounds as well as interferon's mechanism of anti-HBV action. The similarities and differences between this alkylated imino sugar and these other mediators are discussed."	2003	Nov	77	22	11933-40	14581530	0
496	"Lu, X and Block, TM"	Enhancement of infection of HepG2 cells in culture by predigestion of hepadnavirus with V8 protease	Methods Mol Med		2004		96		199-208	14762271	0
497	"Lukacik, P"	Complement regulation at the molecular level: the structure of decay-accelerating factor	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"The human complement regulator CD55 is a key molecule protecting self-cells from complement-mediated lysis. X-ray diffraction and analytical ultracentrifugation data reveal a rod-like arrangement of four short consensus repeat (SCR) domains in both the crystal and solution. The stalk linking the four SCR domains to the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor is extended by the addition of 11 highly charged O-glycans and positions the domains an estimated 177 A above the membrane. Mutation mapping and hydrophobic potential analysis suggest that the interaction with the convertase, and thus complement regulation, depends on the burial of a hydrophobic patch centered on the linker between SCR domains 2 and 3."	2004	Feb-03	101	5	1279-84	14734808	526
498	"Mackeen, M"	The importance of including local correlation times in the calculation of inter-proton distances from NMR measurements: ignoring local correlation times leads to significant errors in the conformational analysis of the Glcalpha1-2Glcalpha linkage by NMR s	Org Biomol Chem	"The experimental determination of oligosaccharide conformations has traditionally used cross-linkage (1)H-(1)H NOE/ROEs. As relatively few NOEs are observed, to provide sufficient conformational constraints this method relies on: accurate quantification of NOE intensities (positive constraints); analysis of absent NOEs (negative constraints); and hence calculation of inter-proton distances using the two-spin approximation. We have compared the results obtained by using (1)H 2D NOESY, ROESY and T-ROESY experiments at 500 and 700 MHz to determine the conformation of the terminal Glcalpha1-2Glcalpha linkage in a dodecasaccharide and a related tetrasaccharide. For the tetrasaccharide, the NOESY and ROESY spectra produced the same qualitative pattern of linkage cross-peaks but the quantitative pattern, the relative peak intensities, was different. For the dodecasaccharide, the NOESY and ROESY spectra at 500 MHz produced a different qualitative pattern of linkage cross-peaks, with fewer peaks in the NOESY spectrum. At 700 MHz, the NOESY and ROESY spectra of the dodecasaccharide produced the same qualitative pattern of peaks, but again the relative peak intensities were different. These differences are due to very significant differences in the local correlation times for different proton pairs across this glycosidic linkage. The local correlation time for each proton pair was measured using the ratio of the NOESY and T-ROESY cross-relaxation rates, leaving the NOESY and ROESY as independent data sets for calculating the inter-proton distances. The inter-proton distances calculated including the effects of differences in local correlation times give much more consistent results."	2006	Jun-07	4	11	2241-6	16729133	0
499	"Maggioncalda, J"	Analysis of a herpes simplex virus type 1 LAT mutant with a deletion between the putative promoter and the 5' end of the 2.0-kilobase transcript	J Virol	"A herpes simplex virus type 1 strain 17 mutant with a deletion between genomic nucleotides 118880 and 119250 was constructed and called 17 delta Sty. The deletion removes most of a putative secondary LAT promoter (called LAPII) as well as 370 of the first 449 nucleotides of the proposed 8.5-kb transcript believed to be the precursor of 2.0-kb LAT. 17 delta Sty was shown to produce major 2.0-kb LATs in tissue culture. Moreover, trigeminal nerves from latently infected mice contained an intact 1.45- to 2.0-kb LAT as well as the minor LATs which are recognized by probes specific for regions downstream of the 2.0-kb LAT. Finally, 17 delta Sty reactivated with normal kinetics from the trigeminal ganglia of latently infected mice in the explant cocultivation assay and egressed from tissue culture cells as efficiently as wild-type virus. These results clearly show that the region deleted in 17 delta Sty is dispensable for intact 2-kb LAT production, viral egress in tissue culture, and normal reactivation from latently infected neurons in mice."	1994	Dec	68	12	7816-24	7966571	0
500	"Maggioncalda, J"	Correlation between herpes simplex virus type 1 rate of reactivation from latent infection and the number of infected neurons in trigeminal ganglia	Virology	"The presence of wild-type herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and several latency associated transcript (LAT) region mutants within the trigeminal ganglia (TG) of latently infected mice was examined. A combination of methods including conventional in situ hybridization to detect viral LAT and an in situ DNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect viral DNA was used. These data show that, for all virus strains in which a comparison was possible, the population of neurons expressing detectable levels of LAT was approximately one-third the total number of viral DNA-containing cells. In addition, in situ PCR analysis revealed that mutants such as 17 delta Sty. 17 delta BstE, and 17 delta S/N, which contain deletions within the LAT locus which do not affect the kinetics of viral reactivation from explanted murine TG, are present in as many neurons as wild-type virus. This was true regardless of the ability to induce accumulation of intact 2.0-kb LAT. On the other hand, mutant 17 delta N/H, which contains a deletion removing the LAT promoter and surrounding genomic region and reactivates slowly from explanted TG, was present in only one-sixth as many neurons as wild-type virus. These data show that detection of mutants unable to synthesize or accumulate 2.0-kb LAT (such as 17 delta N/H) is possible with in situ DNA PCR and that the slow reactivation phenotype of 17 delta N/H correlates with a reduced number of HSV DNA-containing neurons."	1996	Nov-01	225	1	72-81	8918535	0
501	"Maggioncalda, J"	A herpes simplex virus type 1 mutant with a deletion immediately upstream of the LAT locus establishes latency and reactivates from latently infected mice with normal kinetics	J Neurovirol	"The latency associated transcripts (LATs) are the only abundant viral gene products detected during latent herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection of peripheral nerves in animals and people. A LAT promoter has been identified and mutant viruses with lesions removing the promoter and surrounding region have been observed to reactivate slowly from trigeminal ganglia (TG) explanted from latently infected mice. Previous work has shown that most mutants with lesions limited to regions downstream of the LAT promoter reactivate normally. Therefore, to help map the boundaries of the slow reactivation phenotype, a mutant virus with lesions located immediately upstream of the LAT promoter was constructed and called 17 delta S/N. 17 delta S/N contains a 437 nucleotide (nt) deletion 332 nts upstream of the TATAA box of the LAT promoter. In productively infected cells, 17 delta S/N failed to synthesize detectable amounts of the 1.1 and 1.8 kb transcripts which are produced during wild-type infections and are specified by a region just upstream of the LAT promoter. However, 17 delta S/N did produce normal amounts of LAT in tissue culture as well as in neurons derived from latently infected cells, as ascertained by Northern blot and in situ hybridization analysis. Moreover, in latently infected mice, 17 delta S/N established and maintained infection in as many neurons as did wild type virus, as determined by in situ polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect viral DNA. Finally, the virus reactivated from TG derived from latently infected mice with kinetics indistinguishable from those of wild-type virus. Therefore, reactivation from latency, in this model system, does not appear to require function from the viral genomic region located immediately upstream of the LAT promoter."	1996	Aug	2	4	268-78	8799218	0
502	"Magnadottir, B"	The carbohydrate moiety of serum IgM from Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua L.)	Fish Shellfish Immunol	"The carbohydrate moiety of cod serum IgM was analysed using oligosaccharide sequencing techniques. The carbohydrate moiety constituted about 10% of the molecular weight of cod IgM, was associated with the constant region of the heavy chains (Fc), and was composed of N-linked complex type oligosaccharides. Considerable heterogeneity was observed. Sixteen different glycan structures were identified, over 60% were sialylated and 40% contained core fucose. The carbohydrate moiety of cod IgM was shown to provide protection against protease digestion, and partial deglycosylation abolished the antigen binding property of natural cod anti-TNP-BSA antibody."	2002	Mar	12	3	209-27	11931017	446
503	"Malhotra, R"	Glycosylation changes of IgG associated with rheumatoid arthritis can activate complement via the mannose-binding protein	Nat Med	"The glycosylation of the circulating immunoglobulin-gamma (IgG) antibody molecules changes in rheumatoid arthritis. The extent of the changes correlates with the disease severity and reverses in remission. We demonstrate here that the alteration in glycosylation associated with rheumatoid arthritis can create a new mode for the interaction of IgG with complement through binding to the collagenous lectin mannose-binding protein (MBP). Rheumatoid arthritis is associated with a marked increases in IgG glycoforms that lack galactose (referred to as G0 glycoforms) in the Fc region of the molecule and that terminate in N-acetyl glucosamine (GlcNAc). We show, using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and X-ray data, that these terminal GlcNAc residues become accessible for MBP binding. We further demonstrate that multiple presentation of IgG-G0 glycoforms to MBP results in activation of the complement. This suggests that a contribution to the chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane could arise from the localization of the IgG-G0 glycoforms in the affected joint and from resulting activation of complement."	1995	Mar	1	3	237-43	7585040	0
504	"Maloney, EM"	Endemic human T cell lymphotropic virus type II infection among isolated Brazilian Amerindians	J Infect Dis	"Evidence for human T cell lymphotropic viruses (HTLV) was sought in sera and cells collected from adults in 13 isolated South and Central American Indian tribes. Serologic tests identified frequent HTLV-II-like reactivity among the Cayapo and Kraho tribes, who live 330 km apart in Central Brazil. Polymerase chain reaction analyses of viral DNA in cell pellet and plasma fractions confirmed the virus as HTLV-II. Both tribes speak Ge and, at the time of blood collection (1974), subsisted as hunter/gatherers and slash and burn agriculturalists. Further testing of plasma from Cayapo and Kraho of all ages revealed overall HTLV-II prevalence rates of 33.3% and 12.2%, respectively, with increasing prevalence associated with age and female gender. These data reveal for the first time a high prevalence of HTLV-II infection in remote South American Indians with little contact with non-Indians. Thus, HTLV-II is postulated to be an ancient human virus in the New World."	1992	Jul	166	1	100-7	1607683	0
505	"Manger, ID"	Synthesis of 1-N-glycyl beta-oligosaccharide derivatives. Reactivity of Lens culinaris lectin with a fluorescent labeled streptavidin pseudoglycoprotein and immobilized neoglycolipid	Biochemistry	"The lectin from Lens culinaris (lentil) has a binding specificity for glycopeptides bearing 6-O-linked fucose on the reducing terminus on complex-type N-linked oligosaccharides. Lentil lectin therefore provides an excellent example of a carbohydrate binding protein in which high-affinity interactions are dependent on the integrity of the oligosaccharide core structure. We report here the synthesis of the 1-N-glycyl beta-derivative of Gal beta 4GlcNAc beta 2Man alpha 6(Gal beta 4GlcNAc beta 2Man alpha 3)Man beta 4GlcNAc beta 4(Fuc alpha 6)-GlcNAc (Gal-2F) and its subsequent biotinylation and palmitoylation. The biotin derivative when bound to a streptavidin-fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) conjugate was able to bind to both concanavalin A (ConA) and lentil lectin affinity columns. In contrast, synthesis of the biotin derivative of the glycamine derivative of Gal-2F and subsequent binding to streptavidin-FITC afforded reactivity to a ConA affinity column but not to a lentil lectin affinity column. Lentil lectin also bound to plastic microtiter plates containing the adsorbed palmitoyl-1-N-glycyl beta-derivative. No binding occurred when the homologous glycamine neoglycolipid was used. These results suggest the 1-N-glycyl beta-derivative of oligosaccharides may have general utility as an intermediate in the synthesis of novel glycoconjugate probes."	1992	Nov-10	31	44	10733-40	1420189	0
506	"Manger, ID"	1-N-glycyl beta-oligosaccharide derivatives as stable intermediates for the formation of glycoconjugate probes	Biochemistry	"Incubation of reducing sugars in ammonium bicarbonate was found to be a simple procedure for the formation of beta-D-glycosylamines of purified complex oligosaccharides in 70-80% yield. These provide valuable intermediates for the synthesis of a wide range of oligosaccharide probes and derivatives by acylation of the 1-amino function. The 1-amino function showed different rates of reactivity with different reagents. In general, interactions with large ring systems such as the fluorophores dansyl chloride and carboxyfluorescein gave 10-20% yields of products, which consisted of mixtures of both anomeric forms, whereas smaller acylating reagents gave near-quantitative yields of the desired beta-D-derivatives. Steric effects may explain differences in reactivity. N-Chloroacetamido derivatives could be obtained in high yield with retention of the beta-anomeric configuration. Subsequent ammonolysis of the chloroacetamido function afforded the corresponding N-glycyl beta-derivatives. The linker thereby introduced retains the amino function, possesses the useful properties of fixed anomeric configuration, improved stability, and uniform reactivity with a variety of reagents, and is structurally analogous to an asparagine side chain. The potential therefore exists for the generation of oligosaccharide derivatives tailored for different applications."	1992	Nov-10	31	44	10724-32	1420188	0
507	"Mansur, DB"	Localization of internal mammary lymph nodes by CT simulation: implications for breast radiation therapy planning	Radiother Oncol	"The efficacy of post-operative radiation therapy in breast cancer management has been evident for several decades. In recent years there has been increasing interest in treating the internal mammary lymph nodes. In an attempt to simplify their localization for treatment planning purposes, the position of the internal mammary lymph nodes was systematically studied in 65 breast cancer patients undergoing CT simulation."	2004	Dec	73	3	355-7	15588882	0
508	"Mansur, DB"	CT localization of axillary lymph nodes in relation to the humeral head: significance of arm position for radiation therapy planning	Radiother Oncol	"Irradiation of the axillary nodes is often indicated in the clinical radiotherapy of patients with lymphoma and breast cancer. The relative location of the axillary nodes and the humeral head has historically been estimated based on lymphangiographic data. Since CT offers more precise definition, the axillary nodal region in relation to the humeral head was systematically studied in 61 patients undergoing CT simulation for breast conservation therapy. Differences in arm position (degree of abduction) significantly affected the location of the axillary nodal region in relation to the humeral head. With the arm abducted beyond 55 degrees, humeral head blocking would result in blocking of some of the axillary nodes."	2005	Nov	77	2	191-3	16271409	0
509	"Marrero, JA"	"GP73, a resident Golgi glycoprotein, is a novel serum marker for hepatocellular carcinoma"	J Hepatol	"BACKGROUND/AIMS: Golgi protein-73 (GP73) is up-regulated in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The aims of this study were to determine if GP73 is detected in the serum, and to establish the sensitivity and specificity of serum GP73 for diagnosing HCC. METHODS: Serum GP73 was detected by immunoblots and quantified by densitometric analysis. RESULTS: A total of 352 patients were studied. Serum GP73 levels were significantly higher in patients with HCC compared to those with cirrhosis (P < 0.001). GP73 had a sensitivity of 69% and a specificity of 75% at the optimal cutoff point of 10 relative units, with an area under the receiver operating curve of 0.79 vs. 0.61 for AFP (P = 0.001). GP73 levels had significantly higher sensitivity (62%) than AFP (25%) for diagnosing early HCC (P < 0.0001). Moreover, GP73 levels were elevated in the serum of 57% (32/56) of individuals with HCC who had serum AFP levels less than 20ng/ml. CONCLUSIONS: Higher levels of GP73 can be found in the serum of patients with HCC than of those without. GP73 was better than AFP for the diagnosis of early HCC. Further validation studies are needed to confirm the role of GP73 in the early detection of HCC."	2005	Dec	43	6	1007-12	16137783	0
510	"Marriage, HJ"	Effect of pressure on oxidative metabolism of drugs by mouse hepatic microsomes	Undersea Biomed Res	"The metabolism of antipyrene and delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta-9-THC) was studied in vitro with mouse liver supernatant and 105,000 g microsomes at 450 atm pressure. No significant change in rate of antipyrene metabolism was detected, whereas a slight (5.6%) but nonsignificant reduction in the rate of metabolism of delta-9-THC was found. Pressure did, however, produce a significant (23%) reduction in the formation of the 11-hydroxy metabolite from delta-9-THC, but at the same time had no effect on the production of the other major metabolite, 8-alpha-hydroxy-delta-9-THC. This is possibly due to a differential effect on cytochrome P-450 isozymes. Mechanisms for the possible cause of the inhibition of metabolism are discussed."	1986	Sep	13	3	369-81	3022437	0
511	"Marriage, HJ and Harvey, DJ"	Resolution of mouse hepatic cytochrome P-450 isozymes by chromatofocusing	J Chromatogr	Constituent cytochrome P-450 isozymes from mouse hepatic microsomes were fractionated by chromatofocusing on Polybuffer Exchanger 94 over the pH range 5.3-8.3 and characterized by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Eight isozymes were detected in fractions from unpretreated mice and seven from phenobarbitone-pretreated animals. Isozyme-containing fractions were reconstituted and shown to produce specific monohydroxy metabolites from both testosterone and delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol.	1986	Feb-28	354		383-92	3700532	0
512	"Martin, BR"	Identification of new in vivo side-chain acid metabolites of delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol	J Pharm Pharmacol		1976	Oct	28	10	773-4	10374	0
513	"Martin, BR"	Biotransformation of cannabidiol in mice. Identification of new acid metabolites	Drug Metab Dispos	"The in vivo metabolism of cannabidiol (CBD) was investigated in mice. Following the ip administration of CBD to mice, livers were removed and metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate prior to partial purification on Sephadex LH-20 columns. Fractions from the columns were converted into trimethylsilyl, d9-trimethylsilyl, and methylester-trimethylsilyl derivatives for analysis by gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. In addition, metabolites containing carboxylic acid and ketone functional groups were reduced to alcohols with lithium aluminum deuteride before trimethylsilation. A total of 22 metabolites were characterized, 14 of which had not been reported previously. The metabolites could be categorized as follows: monohydroxylated (N=2), dihydroxylated (N=3), CBD-7-oic acid, side chain hydroxy-GBD-7-oic acids (N=3), side-chain acids (N=3), 7-hydroxy-side-chain acids (N=4), 6-oxo-side-chain acids (N=3) and glucuronide conjugates (N=3). The most significant biotransformations were glucuronide conjugation and, to a lesser extent, formation of CBD-7-oic acid."	1977	May-Jun	5	3	259-67	17524	0
514	"Mattu, TS"	"The glycosylation and structure of human serum IgA1, Fab, and Fc regions and the role of N-glycosylation on Fc alpha receptor interactions"	J Biol Chem	"The human serum immunoglobulins IgG and IgA1 are produced in bone marrow and both interact with specific cellular receptors that mediate biological events. In contrast to IgA1, the glycosylation of IgG has been well characterized, and its interaction with various Fc receptors (Fc gamma Rs) has been well studied. In this paper, we have analyzed the glycosylation of IgA1 and IgA1 Fab and Fc as well as three recombinant IgA1 molecules, including two N-glycosylation mutants. Amino acid sequencing data of the IgA1 Fc O-glycosylated hinge region indicated that O-glycans are located at Thr228, Ser230, and Ser232, while O-glycan sites at Thr225 and Thr236 are partially occupied. Over 90% of the N-glycans in IgA1 were sialylated, in contrast to IgG, where < 10% contain sialic acid. This paper contains the first report of Fab glycosylation in IgA1, and (in contrast to IgG Fab, which contains only N-linked glycans) both N- and O-linked oligosaccharides were identified. Analysis of the N-glycans attached to recombinant IgA1 indicated that the C alpha 2 N-glycosylation site contained mostly biantennary glycans, while the tailpiece site, absent in IgG, contained mostly triantennary structures. Further analysis of these data suggested that processing at one Fc N-glycosylation site affects the other. Neutrophil Fc alpha R binding studies, using recombinant IgA1, indicated that neither the tailpiece region nor the N-glycans in the C alpha 2 domain contribute to IgA1-neutrophil Fc alpha R binding. This contrasts with IgG, where removal of the Fc N-glycans reduces binding to the Fc gamma R. The primary sequence and disulfide bond pattern of IgA1, together with the crystal structures of IgG1 Fc and mouse IgA Fab and the glycan sequencing data, were used to generate a molecular model of IgA1. As a consequence of both the primary sequence and S-S bond pattern, the N-glycans in IgA1 Fc are not confined within the inter-alpha-chain space. The accessibility of the C alpha 2 N-glycans provides an explanation for the increased sialylation and galactosylation of IgA1 Fc over that of IgG Fc N-glycans, which are confined in the space between the two C gamma 2 domains. This also suggests why in contrast to IgG Fc, the IgA1 N-glycans are not undergalactosylated in rheumatoid arthritis."	1998	Jan-23	273	4	2260-72	9442070	273
515	"Mattu, TS"	O-glycan analysis of natural human neutrophil gelatinase B using a combination of normal phase-HPLC and online tandem mass spectrometry: implications for the domain organization of the enzyme	Biochemistry	"Gelatinase B is a matrix metalloproteinase (MMP-9) expressed under strict control by many cell types including neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages, and tumor cells. MMP-9 is a key mediator in the physiological maintenance of the extracellular matrix both in tissue remodeling and development, while uncontrolled enzyme activity contributes to pathologies such as cancer and inflammation. Neutrophils release MMP-9 from granules in response to IL-8 stimulation. Human MMP-9 has three potential N-linked glycosylation sites and contains a Ser/Pro/Thr rich domain, known as the type V collagen-like domain, which is expected to be heavily O-glycosylated. Indeed, approximately 85% of the total sugars on human neutrophil MMP-9 are O-linked. This paper presents the detailed analysis of picomole amounts of these O-glycans using a novel HPLC-based strategy for O-glycan analysis that provides linkage and arm specific information in addition to monosaccharide sequence. The initial structural assignments were confirmed using HPLC with online MS/MS fragmentation analysis. Twelve sugars were identified that contained from two to nine monosaccharide residues. Most of these contained type 2 core structures with Galbeta1-4GlcNAc (N-acetyl lactosamine) extensions, with or without sialic acid or fucose. The O-glycans were modeled using the oligosaccharide structural database. On the basis of the structure of gelatinase A (MMP-2), a model of MMP-9 suggests that the type V collagen-like domain in gelatinase B is located on a loop remote from the active site. Fourteen potential O-glycosylation sites are multiply presented on this loop of 52 amino acids. Many of the O-glycans identified contain terminal galactose residues that may provide recognition epitopes. Importantly, heavy glycosylation of this loop region, absent in gelatinase A, has considerable implications for the domain organization of MMP-9."	2000	Dec-26	39	51	15695-704	11123894	0
516	"Mayor, S"	Glycolipid precursors for the membrane anchor of Trypanosoma brucei variant surface glycoproteins. I. Can structure of the phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C sensitive and resistant glycolipids	J Biol Chem	"A number of eukaryotic surface glycoproteins, including the variant surface glycoproteins of Trypanosoma brucei, are synthesized with a carboxyl-terminal hydrophobic peptide extension that is cleaved and replaced by a complex glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI) membrane anchor within 1-5 min of the completion of polypeptide synthesis. The rapidity of this carboxyl-terminal modification suggests the existence of a prefabricated precursor glycolipid that can be transferred en bloc to the polypeptide. We have reported the purification and partial characterization of a candidate precursor glycolipid (P2) and of a compositionally similar glycolipid (P3) from T. brucei (Menon, A. K., Mayor, S., Ferguson, M. A. J., Duszenko, M., and Cross, G. A. M. (1988) J. Biol. Chem. 263, 1970-1977). The primary structure of the glycan portions of P2 and P3 have now been analyzed by a combination of selective chemical fragmentation and enzymatic glycan sequencing at the subnanomolar level. The glycans were generated by deamination, NaB3H4 reduction, and dephosphorylation of glycolipids purified from different trypanosome variants. Glycan fragments derived from biosynthetically labeled glycolipids were also analyzed. The cumulative data strongly suggest that P2 and P3 contain ethanolamine-phosphate-Man alpha 1-2Man alpha 1-6Man alpha 1-GlcN linked glycosidically to an inositol residue, as do all the GPI anchors that have been structurally characterized. The structural similarities suggest that GPI membrane anchors are derived from common precursor glycolipids that become variably modified during or after addition to newly synthesized proteins."	1990	Apr-15	265	11	6164-73	2138614	0
517	"McAlister, MS"	"Structural analysis of the CD5 antigen--expression, disulphide bond analysis and physical characterisation of CD5 scavenger receptor superfamily domain 1"	Eur J Biochem	"CD5 is a type-I transmembrane glycoprotein found on thymocytes, T-cells and a subset of B-cells. The extracellular region consists of three domains belonging to the scavenger receptor cysteine-rich (SRCR) superfamily, for which no three-dimensional structure has been obtained. Recombinant soluble CD5 domain 1 (CD5d1), the N-terminal SRCR domain, has been expressed in both chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and Pichia pastoris. CD5d1 was shown to be correctly folded by binding to the CD5 monoclonal antibody Leul. Circular dichroism and NMR analyses indicate that CD5d1 has a high beta-sheet content. CD5d1 from both CHO cells and P. pastoris have very similar properties. The disulphide bonding pattern was determined and is consistent with that found for the group-A SRCR domain of type-1 macrophage scavenger receptor and MARCO, the macrophage receptor with collagenous structure. Observations have been made of the role of glycosylation of CD5. P. pastoris expression provides large quantities of correctly folded recombinant CD5d1 for multidimensional NMR and for X-ray crystallographic studies. The whole extracellular region of CD5, expressed as a chimaera with rat CD4 domains 3 and 4 (cCD5d1-3-CD4d3+4), was studied by electron microscopy and carbohydrate analysis to gain an overview of the structure of the extracellular portion of intact CD5. Carbohydrate analysis identified N-linked glycans on CD5 domains 1 and 2, and sialylated O-linked glycans on the linker peptide between domains 1 and 2. Electron microscopy and carbohydrate analysis together suggest that the extracellular region of CD5 forms a rod-like structure with domain 1 distal from the cell surface and separated from domains 2 and 3 by an O-glycosylated peptide linker region."	1998	Oct-01	257	1	131-41	9799111	0
518	"McCormick, B"	Local regional recurrence and salvage surgery. American College of Radiology. ACR Appropriateness Criteria	Radiology		2000	Jun	215 Suppl		1181-92	11037541	0
519	"McDonnell, TJ"	bcl-2-immunoglobulin transgenic mice demonstrate extended B cell survival and follicular lymphoproliferation	Cell	"Human follicular B cell lymphomas possess a t(14;18) interchromosomal translocation that juxtaposes the putative proto-oncogene bcl-2 with the immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chain locus. We generated minigene constructs representing the bcl-2-Ig fusion gene found at this chromosomal breakpoint. These constructs were placed into the germ line of mice to assess the effects of the t(14;18) during development. The transgene demonstrates a lymphoid pattern of expression and uniformly results in an expanded follicular center cell population. Hyperplastic splenic follicles coalesce to form massive regions of splenic white pulp. Mice over 15 weeks of age demonstrate regional lymphadenopathy with abnormal cellular infiltrates. The expanded lymphoid compartment is composed predominantly of polyclonal B220-positive, IgM/IgD-positive B cells. Provocatively, the bcl-2-Ig transgene confers a survival advantage to a population of mature B cells assessed in vitro. bcl-2-Ig transgenic mice document a prospective role for the t(14;18) in B cell growth and the pathogenesis of follicular lymphoma."	1989	Apr-07	57	1	79-88	2649247	0
520	"McDonnell, TJ"	Deregulated Bcl-2-immunoglobulin transgene expands a resting but responsive immunoglobulin M and D-expressing B-cell population	Mol Cell Biol	"We characterized the basis for the follicular lymphoproliferation in transgenic mice bearing a Bcl-2-immunoglobulin (Bcl-2-Ig) minigene representing the t(14;18) of human follicular lymphoma. Discriminatory S1 nuclease protection assays revealed that the Bcl-2-Ig transgene was overexpressed relative to endogenous mouse Bcl-2 in spleen and thymus. Western (immunoblot) analysis demonstrated the overproduction of the human 25-kilodalton Bcl-2 protein, which arose from the transgene, in spleen, thymus, and the expanded B-cell subset. Despite the generalized lymphoid pattern of deregulation, two-color flow cytometry and density gradient centrifugation indicated that the expanded lymphocytes were predominantly small, resting B cells coexpressing B220, immunoglobulin M (IgM), IgD, Ia, and kappa. Cell cycle analysis confirmed that about 97% of these expanded B cells reside in G0/G1. An extensive characterization of transgenic lines revealed a fourfold excess of IgM-IgD-expressing B cells in spleen and dramatically increased numbers in bone marrow. While resting, these cells proliferated in response to lipopolysaccharide and anti-IgM and demonstrated normal B-cell colony formation in soft agar. Moreover, these B cells, which demonstrated an extended survival in vitro even in the absence of stroma, were also resting in G0, yet were capable of proliferative responses. These findings provide consistent evidence that the accumulation of B cells after Bcl-2 overproduction is secondary to prolonged cell survival and not increased cell cycling. This suggests a unique role for Bcl-2 as a proto-oncogene that enhances cell survival independent of promoting cell division."	1990	May	10	5	1901-7	2183011	0
521	"McFadden, PN"	The stereospecificity of protein kinases	Arch Biochem Biophys	"To test whether cellular protein kinases exist that phosphorylate D-amino acid residues, a method was developed for separating O-phospho-D-serine from O-phospho-L-serine and O-phospho-L-tyrosine from O-phospho-D-tyrosine. This was accomplished by converting these amino acids to the L-leucyl dipeptide derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers by anion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography. The enantiomeric content of these D- and L-residues were measured in hydrolysates of 32P-labeled proteins produced by the protein kinases of human erythrocytes and the tyrosyl protein kinase of the Abelson leukemia virus. We found no measurable D-phosphoserine in erythrocyte membrane proteins under conditions where a 1% content of this residue relative to L-phosphoserine would have been detected. These values can be used to place an upper hypothetical limit on the fraction of erythrocyte protein kinase activity that is specific for serine residues in the D-configuration. In separate experiments, we examined the specificity of the tyrosyl protein kinases. We found that all of the phosphotyrosine that we isolated from the erythrocyte band 3 NH2-terminal fragment and from the autophosphorylation of the Abelson virus tyrosyl kinase was in the L-configuration."	1987	Dec	259	2	227-33	2447831	0
522	"McGlaughlin, EJ and Taylor, ME"	Professional preparation for corporate health educators: a different perspective	Health Educ		1987	Dec-1988 Jan	18	6	20-Feb	3152197	0
523	"McNeese, MD"	Locally advanced breast cancer. American College of Radiology. ACR Appropriateness Criteria	Radiology		2000	Jun	215 Suppl		1171-80	11037540	0
524	"Meager, A"	Interactions of KB-cell glycoproteins with an adenovirus capsid protein	Eur J Biochem	"Glycoprotein material extracted from human KB cells with a flurocarbon, trichlorotrifluoroethane (Arklone P), into a waste-soluble fraction binds to fibre, a structural protein of the adenovirus type-5 capsid. The fibre-binding glycoprotein(s) were purified by ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex and affinity chromatography on a fibre-Sepharose support. The purification procedure also includes a trypsinization step which eliminates the bulk of contaminating KB cell proteins present in the aqueous fraction without appreciably affecting the activity of the fibre-binding glycoprotein(s). Some comparison is made of the membrane-bound receptors for adenovirus and the water-soluble fibre-binding glycoprotein(s)."	1976	Jan-15	61	2	345-53	1248463	0
525	"Mehta, A"	In situ DNA PCR and RNA hybridization detection of herpes simplex virus sequences in trigeminal ganglia of latently infected mice	Virology	"The presence of herpes simplex virus (HSV-1) DNA in the trigeminal ganglia of latently infected mice was detected by an in situ DNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR), which includes a DNA:DNA hybridization step (indirect in situ PCR). These results were compared to the number of neurons possessing the HSV-1 latency associated transcript (LAT), as detected by in situ RNA hybridization with LAT probes. Sensitivity assays were shown to detect a single copy cellular gene in 48% of neuronal cell bodies. The results suggest that in situ PCR is an effective method to locate and detect HSV-1 within latently infected neurons. Moreover, the number of neurons found to be harboring HSV-1, by the method of in situ PCR, which does not depend upon virus gene expression, is within threefold of the number detected by in situ hybridization for LAT. Therefore, this report describes the first detection of HSV-1 DNA in latently infected murine trigeminal ganglia by the method of indirect in situ PCR, and compares the findings to the number of neurons expressing LAT, as assessed by conventional in situ hybridization."	1995	Jan-10	206	1	633-40	7831818	0
526	"Mehta, A"	A strategy for anti-viral intervention: the use of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors to prevent chaperone-mediated folding of viral envelope glycoproteins	Biochem Soc Trans		1997	Nov	25	4	1188-93	9449973	0
527	"Mehta, A"	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) envelope glycoproteins vary drastically in their sensitivity to glycan processing: evidence that alteration of a single N-linked glycosylation site can regulate HBV secretion	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"The role of N-linked glycosylation and glycan trimming in the function of glycoproteins remains a central question in biology. Hepatitis B virus specifies three glycoproteins (L, M, and S) that are derived from alternate translation of the same ORF. All three glycoproteins contain a common N-glycosylation site in the S domain while M possesses an additional N-glycosylation site at its amino terminus. In the presence of N-butyl-deoxnojirimycin (an inhibitor of alpha-glucosidase) virions and the M protein are surprisingly retained. Preliminary evidence suggests that the retained M protein is hyperglucosylated and localized to lysosomal vesicles. In contrast, the S and L proteins are secreted, and their glycosylation state is unaffected by the presence of the inhibitor. Site-directed mutagenesis provides evidence that virion secretion requires the glycosylation sequon in the pre-S2 domain of M. This highlights the potential role of the M protein oligosaccharide as a therapeutic target."	1997	Mar-04	94	5	1822-7	9050863	245
528	"Mehta, A"	Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors as potential broad based anti-viral agents	FEBS Lett	"N-Linked oligosaccharides play many roles in the fate and functions of glycoproteins. One function is to assist in the folding of proteins by mediating interactions of the lectin-like chaperone proteins calnexin and calreticulin with nascent glycoproteins. These interactions can be prevented by inhibitors of the alpha-glucosidases and this causes some proteins to be misfolded and retained within the endoplasmic reticulum. In human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) the misfolding of key viral envelope glycoproteins interferes with the viral life cycle. It has been demonstrated in an animal model of chronic HBV that glucosidase inhibitors can alter glycosylation and have anti-viral activity. As the mechanism of action of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors is the induction of misfolded or otherwise defective viral glycoproteins, such inhibitors may be useful therapeutics for many viruses, especially those which bud from the endoplasmic reticulum (where protein folding takes place). For example bovine viral diarrhea virus, a pestivirus akin to hepatitis C virus, is also extremely sensitive to glucosidase inhibition."	1998	Jun-23	430	01-Feb	17-22	9678587	0
529	"Mehta, A"	The role of N-linked glycosylation in the secretion of hepatitis B virus	Adv Exp Med Biol		1998		435		195-205	9498078	0
530	"Mehta, A"	Inhibition of hepatitis B virus DNA replication by imino sugars without the inhibition of the DNA polymerase: therapeutic implications	Hepatology	"Previously we have shown that the imino sugar inhibitor of N-linked glycan processing, N-nonyl-deoxynojirimycin (N-nonyl-DNJ), had antiviral activity in the woodchuck model of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. In studying the mechanism of action of this compound, it was discovered that imino sugars could inhibit HBV secretion without inhibiting N-linked glycoprocessing. Although N-nonyl-DNJ is an inhibitor of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) glucosidase, here it is shown that N-nonyl-DNJ retained antiviral activity at concentrations that had no significant impact on ER glucosidase function. Taken together, these results suggested that N-nonyl-DNJ possessed an antiviral activity attributable to a function other than an impact on glycoprocessing. This hypothesis was confirmed by experiments showing that N-nonyl-deoxygalactojirimycin (N-nonyl-DGJ), an alkyl derivative of galactose with no impact on glycoprocessing, retains anti-HBV activity. The data suggest that N-nonyl-DGJ exerts its antiviral action at a point before viral envelopment and may prevent the proper encapsidation of the HBV pregenomic RNA."	2001	Jun	33	6	1488-95	11391538	0
531	"Mehta, A"	"Imino sugars that are less toxic but more potent as antivirals, in vitro, compared with N-n-nonyl DNJ"	Antivir Chem Chemother	"Imino sugar glucosidase inhibitors have selective antiviral activity against certain enveloped, mammalian viruses. Deoxynojirimycins (DNJs) modified by N-alkylation to contain a nine carbon atom side chain (N-n-nonyl-deoxynojirimycin; N-nonyl-DNJ, NN-DNJ) were shown to be, for example, at least 20 times more potent in inhibiting hepatitis B virus (HBV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in cell based assays than the non-alkylated DNJ. These data suggested that modification of the alkyl side chain could influence antiviral activity. Previous work has focused on varying side chain length. In this report, the influence of side chain branching and cyclization upon toxicity and antiviral activity was explored. Briefly, using a virus secretion assay for HBV and a single step growth (yield reduction) assay for BVDV, 14 different DNJ-based sugars, possessing various N-alkyl substitutions, were tested for antiviral activity. Of the series, N-methoxy-nonyl-DNJ and N-butyl-cyclohexyl DNJ were determined to have the best selectivity index against BVDV and HBV, with the N-methoxy analogue being the most potent with micromolar antiviral activity. The results of this antiviral survey and the implications for the mechanism of action and ultimate therapeutic potential of the DNJ-based imino sugars is provided and discussed."	2002	Sep	13	5	299-304	12630678	0
532	"Mehta, A"	Structure-activity relationship of a new class of anti-hepatitis B virus agents	Antimicrob Agents Chemother	"N-Nonyl-deoxy-galactonojirimycin (N-nonyl-DGJ) has been shown to reduce the amount of hepatitis B virus (HBV) produced by tissue cultures under conditions where cell viability is not affected. We show here that the compound N-nonyl-DGJ was effective against lamivudine-resistant HBV mutants bearing the YMDD motif in the polymerase gene, consistent with the compound's activity being distinct from those of nucleoside inhibitors. To better understand the chemical structures that influence its antiviral activity, a series of imino sugar derivatives were made and tested for their antiviral activity against HBV. This work suggests that the antiviral activity of the alkovirs requires an alkyl chain length of at least eight carbons but that the galactose-based head group can be modified with little or no loss in activity."	2002	Dec	46	12	4004-8	12435712	0
533	"Mehta, AS"	alpha-Galactosylceramide and novel synthetic glycolipids directly induce the innate host defense pathway and have direct activity against hepatitis B and C viruses	Antimicrob Agents Chemother	"alpha-Galactosylceramide is a glycolipid derived from marine sponges that is currently in human clinical trials as an anticancer agent. It has also been shown to be effective in reducing the amount of hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA detected in mice that produce HBV constitutively from a transgene. It was assumed that all of the antiviral and antitumor activities associated with alpha-galactosylceramide were mediated through the activation of NK T cells. However, we report here an additional unpredicted activity of alpha-galactosylceramide as a direct antiviral agent and inducer of the innate host defense pathway. To exploit this activity, we have developed a new class of smaller, orally available glycolipids that also induce the innate host defense pathway and have direct activity against HBV and hepatitis C virus."	2004	Jun	48	6	2085-90	15155204	0
534	"Mellor, HR"	"High-performance cation-exchange chromatography and pulsed amperometric detection for the separation, detection, and quantitation of N-alkylated imino sugars in biological samples"	Anal Biochem	"The use of imino sugars for the potential treatment of lysosomal glycolipid storage diseases and hepatitis virus infections requires accurate, quantitative measurement of these compounds in biological samples. We demonstrate here the versatility of cation-exchange chromatography and pulsed amperometric detection of a range of compounds that differ in both isometric structure and N-alkyl chain length. Although column retention appears dependent upon residual charge on the imine function, successful isocratic separation can be achieved by secondary hydrophobic interactions. A series of N-alkylated deoxynojirimycin compounds containing C(1-10) alkyl chains are readily separated and detected by pulsed amperometry after cation suppression. Using experimentally derived response factors for imino sugars and measurement of peak areas we have developed a reliable method for quantitatively determining concentrations in solution. A rapid protocol for the removal of protein and contaminants in biological samples is described. This has allowed the successful measurement of imino sugars in animal tissues and will be useful for understanding the factors involved in compound bioavailability and in the design of novel therapeutics."	2000	Aug-15	284	1	136-42	10933866	0
535	"Mellor, HR"	"Preparation, biochemical characterization and biological properties of radiolabelled N-alkylated deoxynojirimycins"	Biochem J	"We have reductively alkylated deoxynojirimycin imino sugars using sodium cyanoborohydride to provide an efficient means of generating a series of N-alkylated compounds containing 4-18 carbon side chains. The yields were greater than 90% using a variety of aldehydes of different chain lengths, and after purification were >95% pure using (1)H-NMR. Radiolabelled compounds were prepared using sodium cyanoborotriti-ide to selectively label the first carbon atom in the alkyl chain and used in protein-binding and cell- and tissue-uptake experiments. Protein binding was chain-length-dependent with compounds of intermediate chain length (C(9)-C(12)), demonstrating an equal distribution between the aqueous and protein-bound phase. The extent of cell uptake also increased proportionally with increased chain length in a time-dependent manner. When administered to mice, the longer alkyl-chain compounds showed reduced absorption from the intestine and a marked deposition of compound in the liver and brain, suggesting that the more hydrophobic compounds were poorly cleared by the major tissues. In tissue-culture cells compounds with 8 or fewer carbon atoms were non-toxic and had CC(50) (the concentration at which the number of cells or cell proliferation is reduced by 50%) values greater than 1 mM. Compounds with chain lengths above C(8) showed a chain-length-dependent increase in cytotoxicity. N-alkylated deoxynojirimycins (C(4)-C(18)) were evaluated for their inhibitory effects on ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase and glycoprotein-processing alpha-glucosidase. Increasing the alkyl chain length had little effect on alpha-glucosidase activity, but inhibition of ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase increased 10-fold when C(4) and C(9)-C(18) compounds were compared. Overall these data provide further definition of the molecular features of alkylated imino sugars that influence tissue selectivity and efficacy for cellular enzyme inhibition."	2002	Aug-15	366	Pt 1	225-33	11982484	0
536	"Mellor, HR"	Membrane disruption and cytotoxicity of hydrophobic N-alkylated imino sugars is independent of the inhibition of protein and lipid glycosylation	Biochem J	"The N-alkyl moiety of N-alkylated imino sugars is crucial for therapeutic activities of these compounds as inhibitors of glycosphingolipid (GSL) biosynthesis and as antivirals. The improved potency afforded by a long N-alkyl moiety is coincident with increased compound-induced cytotoxicity. Therefore, in the present study, we examined the mechanism of this cytotoxicity in detail. Despite N-butyl-deoxynojirimycin and N-butyl-deoxygalactonojirimycin inhibiting the glycosylation of ceramide to glucosylceramide, ceramide levels did not increase in HL60 cells treated with these compounds. Long-chain N-alkylated imino sugars were toxic to cells at concentrations considerably lower than the critical micellar concentrations for these compounds and consequently did not solubilize radioactively labelled cellular proteins and lipids. However, membrane disruption and cell fragmentation did increase in a concentration- and chain-length-dependent manner. These results are consistent with previously proposed interactions between surface-active amphiphiles and protein-containing lipid membranes when drug concentrations are below the critical micellar concentration. Taken together, these results demonstrate that the cellular toxicity of hydrophobic N-alkylated imino sugars is due to cell lysis and cell fragmentation and, most importantly, is not related to the beneficial therapeutic effects of these compounds on protein and in lipid glycosylation. This information will aid in the future development of more selective imino sugar therapeutics for the treatment of human disease."	2003	Sep-01	374	Pt 2	307-14	12769816	0
537	"Mellor, HR"	Cellular effects of deoxynojirimycin analogues: inhibition of N-linked oligosaccharide processing and generation of free glucosylated oligosaccharides	Biochem J	"In the accompanying paper [Mellor, Neville, Harvey, Platt, Dwek and Butters (2004) Biochem. J. 381, 861-866] we treated HL60 cells with N-alk(en)yl-deoxynojirimycin (DNJ) compounds to inhibit glucosphingolipid (GSL) biosynthesis and identified a number of non-GSL-derived, small, free oligosaccharides (FOS) most likely produced due to inhibition of the oligosaccharide-processing enzymes a-glucosidases I and II. When HL60 cells were treated with concentrations of N-alk(en)ylated DNJ analogues that inhibited GSL biosynthesis completely, N-butyl- and N-nonyl-DNJ inhibited endoplasmic reticulum (ER) glucosidases I and II, but octadecyl-DNJ did not, probably due to the lack of ER lumen access for this novel, long-chain derivative. Glucosidase inhibition resulted in the appearance of free Glc1-3Man structures, which is evidence of Golgi glycoprotein endomannosidase processing of oligosaccharides with retained glucose residues. Additional large FOS was also detected in cells following a 16 h treatment with N-butyl- and N-nonyl-DNJ. When these FOS structures (>30, including >20 species not present in control cells) were characterized by enzyme digests and MALDI-TOF (matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization-time-of-flight) MS, all were found to be polymannose-type oligosaccharides, of which the majority were glucosylated and had only one reducing terminal GlcNAc (N-acetylglucosamine) residue (FOS-GlcNAc1), demonstrating a cytosolic location. These results support the proposal that the increase in glucosylated FOS results from enzyme-mediated cytosolic cleavage of oligosaccharides from glycoproteins exported from the ER because of misfolding or excessive retention. Importantly, the present study characterizes the cellular properties of DNJs further and demonstrates that side-chain modifications allow selective inhibition of protein and lipid glycosylation pathways. This represents the most detailed characterization of the FOS structures arising from ER a-glucosidase inhibition to date."	2004	Aug-01	381	Pt 3	867-75	15128289	0
538	"Mellor, HR"	"Cellular effects of deoxynojirimycin analogues: uptake, retention and inhibition of glycosphingolipid biosynthesis"	Biochem J	"Deoxynojirimycin (DNJ) analogues are inhibitors of ceramide glucosyltransferase (CGT), which catalyses the first step in the glucosphingolipid (GSL) biosynthetic pathway. We have synthesized a series of DNJ analogues to study the contribution of N-alk(en)yl side chains (C4, C9 or C18) to the behaviour of these analogues in cultured HL60 cells. When cells were treated for 16 h at non-cytotoxic concentrations of inhibitor, a 40-50% decrease in GSL levels was measured by HPLC analysis of GSL-derived oligosaccharides following ceramide glycanase digestion of GSL and 2-aminobenzamide labelling of the released oligosaccharides. Using a novel technique for short-term [14C]galactose labelling of cellular GSL, we used compound inhibition of GSL biosynthesis as a marker for compound uptake into cells. Surprisingly, the uptake of all three of the DNJ analogues was extremely rapid and was not dependent upon the length of the N-alk(en)yl moiety. Compound uptake occurred in less than 1 min, as shown by the complete inhibition of GSL labelling in cells treated with all the DNJ analogues. Greatly increased cellular retention of N-cis-13-octadecenyl-DNJ was observed relative to the shorter-chain compounds, N-butyl-DNJ and N-nonyl-DNJ, as indicated by complete inhibition of CGT 24 h after removal of inhibitor from the culture medium. The present study further characterizes the properties of N-alk(en)ylated DNJs, and demonstrates that increasing the length of the side chain is a simple way of improving imino sugar retention and therefore inhibitory efficacy for CGT in cultured cells."	2004	Aug-01	381	Pt 3	861-6	15128268	0
539	"Mellow, TE"	Endocytosis of N-acetylglucosamine-containing glycoproteins by rat fibroblasts expressing a single species of chicken liver glycoprotein receptor	J Biol Chem	"A cDNA clone for the chicken liver receptor which mediates endocytosis of glycoproteins containing terminal N-acetylglucosamine has been isolated and sequenced, confirming the previously obtained amino acid sequence of this protein (which is also known as the chicken hepatic lectin). This cDNA was introduced into Rat-1 fibroblasts and expressed using the promotor in the long terminal repeat of Moloney murine leukemia virus. Cells expressing chicken receptor were identified by screening with antireceptor antibodies followed by fluorescein-conjugated second antibodies. Receptor expressed in these cells was indistinguishable on gel electrophoresis from receptor isolated from liver. Three clonally isolated lines were examined for their ability to bind agalacto-alpha 1-acid glycoproteins at 0 degrees C and to take up and degrade this ligand at 37 degrees C. The receptor number (50,000/cell), affinity for ligand (35 nM), and uptake rate (5 molecules ligand/surface receptor/h) are similar to those previously observed for chicken hepatocytes, and for the uptake of asialoglycoproteins by rat hepatocytes and hepatoma cells. These findings indicate that the chicken receptor correctly traverses the endocytic pathway in a rat cell even though the cytoplasmic domain of this protein shows no primary structural homology with the corresponding portion of the rat liver receptor or with receptors found in fibroblasts."	1988	Apr-15	263	11	5468-73	3281941	0
540	"Merry, AH"	Recovery of intact 2-aminobenzamide-labeled O-glycans released from glycoproteins by hydrazinolysis	Anal Biochem	"The initial step in quantitative analysis of O-linked glycans of glycoproteins is to release them in high yield, nonselectively, unmodified, and with a free reducing terminus. In contrast to other techniques, hydrazinolysis can meet these criteria. However, when analyzing pools of O-linked glycans as described in the accompanying article by L. Royle et al. (2002, Anal. Biochem. 304), some peeling of the glycans was observed. Critical steps in the sample preparation and glycan recovery were therefore evaluated by analyzing and identifying both intact O-glycans and degraded products. Synthetic O-glycopeptides were characterized by mass spectrometry. Released glycans were identical to those on the glycopeptide. O-Linked glycans from a range of glycoproteins of increasing complexity, namely, bovine serum fetuin, glycophorin A, and previously uncharacterized glycopeptides isolated from human salivary mucin Muc5B, were also analyzed. Quantitative analysis of the glycan profile confirmed that there was <2% peeling of O-glycans released by hydrazinolysis conditions of 60 degrees C for 6 h, and recovered using the optimised procedure now described. This demonstrated that O-glycans can be prepared by hydrazinolysis without degradation and, as part of an analytical strategy, makes the analysis of O-glycans attached to low-microgram levels of naturally occurring glycoproteins feasible."	2002	May-01	304	1	91-9	11969192	0
541	"Merry, AH"	O-glycan sialylation and the structure of the stalk-like region of the T cell co-receptor CD8	J Biol Chem	"Studies of mucins suggest that the structural effects of O-glycans are restricted to steric interactions between peptide-linked GalNAc residues and adjacent polypeptide residues. It has been proposed, however, that differential O-glycan sialylation alters the structure of the stalk-like region of the T cell co-receptor, CD8, and that this, in turn, modulates ligand binding (Daniels, M. A., Devine, L., Miller, J. D., Moser, J. M., Lukacher, A. E., Altman, J. D., Kavathas, P., Hogquist, K. A., and Jameson, S. C. (2001) Immunity 15, 1051-1061; Moody, A. M., Chui, D., Reche, P. A., Priatel, J. J., Marth, J. D., and Reinherz, E. L. (2001) Cell 107, 501-512). We characterize the glycosylation of soluble, chimeric forms of the alphaalpha- and alphabeta-isoforms of murine CD8 containing the O-glycosylated stalk of rat CD8alphaalpha, and we show that the stalk O-glycans are differentially sialylated in CHO K1 versus Lec3.2.8.1 cells (82 versus approximately 6%, respectively). Sedimentation analysis indicates that the Perrin functions, Pexp, which reflect overall molecular shape, are very similar (1.61 versus 1.54), whereas the sedimentation coefficients (s) of the CHO K1- and Lec3.2.8.1-derived proteins differ considerably (3.73 versus 3.13 S). The hydrodynamic properties of molecular models also strongly imply that the sialylated and non-sialylated forms of the chimera have parallel, equally highly extended stalks ( approximately 2.6 A/residue). Our analysis indicates that, as in the case of mucins, the overall structure of O-glycosylated stalk-like peptides is sialylation-independent and that the functional effects of differential CD8 O-glycan sialylation need careful interpretation."	2003	Jul-18	278	29	27119-28	12676960	0
542	"Mershon, DH"	Organizational factors and the perception of motion in depth	Percept Psychophys	"When two stationary, stereoscopically separated targets are viewed in a completely dark surround, and no cues concerning their egocentric distances from the observer are salient, the farther target tends to be seen at the same distance it would have assumed if it were by itself. The nearer target is seen as being closer than it would have been if seen alone. The present studies extend this previous finding (now termed the far-anchor effect) into the domain of targets that move in stereoscopic space. Observers viewed two small illuminated targets, which began at either the same or different stereoscopic distances. One of the targets was moved in depth and the observers identified the target that appeared to move. Conditions varied according to the initial depth location of the moving target. Significantly more correct responses were reported when the nearer target moved than when the farther one moved, consistent with the hypothesis that the perception of motion in depth is affected by the aforementioned perceptual anchoring effect of the farther target."	1993	Aug	54	2	240-9	8361839	0
543	"Mimura, Y"	Immunogenicity of calreticulin-bound murine leukemia virus glycoprotein gp90	Adv Exp Med Biol		2005		564		85-94	16400809	0
544	"Mir-Shekari, SY"	The glycosylation of the influenza A virus hemagglutinin by mammalian cells. A site-specific study	J Biol Chem	"We have characterized the glycans at individual sites on the hemagglutinin of three influenza A variants to obtain information on the role of cell-specific glycosylation in determining the receptor binding properties of this virus. The variants differ in whether they have a glycosylation site at residue 129 on the tip of the hemagglutinin and whether amino acid 184 (near to the receptor binding site) is His or Asn. We found that all sites on each variant are glycosylated in Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells, that the glycosylation is site-specific, and that the glycans at the same site in each variant are highly similar. One site that is buried in the hemagglutinin trimer contains only oligomannose glycans. The remaining sites carry complex glycans of increasing size as the distance of the site from the viral membrane decreases. Most of these complex glycans are terminated with alpha-galactose residues, a consequence in bovine cells of the removal of terminal sialic acids by the viral neuraminidase. Although the glycans at residue 129 are among the smallest on the molecule, they are large enough to reach the receptor binding pocket on their own and adjacent monomers. The results suggest that the reduction in receptor binding observed with Madin-Darby bovine kidney cell-grown virus is due to the combined effect of large complex glycans at the tip of the hemagglutinin and a His to Asn substitution close to the receptor binding pocket."	1997	Feb-14	272	7	4027-36	9020110	242
545	"Mitchell, DA"	A novel mechanism of carbohydrate recognition by the C-type lectins DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR. Subunit organization and binding to multivalent ligands	J Biol Chem	"DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR are cell-surface receptors that mediate cell-cell interactions within the immune system by binding to intercellular adhesion molecule-3. The receptor polypeptides share 77% amino acid sequence identity and are type II transmembrane proteins. The extracellular domain of each comprises seven 23-residue tandem repeats and a C-terminal C-type carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD). Cross-linking, equilibrium ultracentrifugation, and circular dichroism studies of soluble recombinant fragments of DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR have been used to show that the extracellular domain of each receptor is a tetramer stabilized by an alpha-helical stalk. Both DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR bind ligands bearing mannose and related sugars through the CRDs. The CRDs of DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR bind Man(9)GlcNAc(2) oligosaccharide 130- and 17-fold more tightly than mannose, and affinity for a glycopeptide bearing two such oligosaccharides is increased by a further factor of 5- to 25-fold. These results indicate that the CRDs contain extended or secondary oligosaccharide binding sites that accommodate mammalian-type glycan structures. When the CRDs are clustered in the tetrameric extracellular domain, their arrangement provides a means of amplifying specificity for multiple glycans on host molecules targeted by DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR. Binding to clustered oligosaccharides may also explain the interaction of these receptors with the gp120 envelope protein of human immunodeficiency virus-1, which contributes to virus infection."	2001	Aug-03	276	31	28939-45	11384997	0
546	"Moodera, JS"	Exchange-induced spin polarization of conduction electrons in paramagnetic metals	Physical Review. B. Condensed Matter.		1989	Dec-15	40	17	11980-11982	9991817	0
547	"Moore, HG"	A hazard in the use of the intestinal tube ballon	Ann Surg		1953	Apr	137	4	565-8	13031498	0
548	"Mori, K"	The activation of type 1 and type 2 plasminogen by type I and type II tissue plasminogen activator	J Biol Chem	"Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) was fractionated using lysine-Sepharose affinity chromatography. Type I, type II, and a minor peak with high affinity for lysine (designated type D) tPA were recovered. In an indirect amidolytic assay involving native human Glu-plasminogen and fibrin, type II tPA showed a 2-fold higher activity than type I. To explore the combinatorial effect of the variable glycosylation status of both tPA and plasminogen, kinetic constants for fibrin-dependent plasminogen activation were determined for combinations of type I, II, and D tPA with type 1 and 2 plasminogen. Within a 4-fold range, the fastest rate was achieved from the combination of type D (type II + D) tPA and type 2 plasminogen. N-Glycosylation of plasminogen increased the Km value for activation by all tPA variants; N-glycosylation of type I tPA at Asn184 decreased the kcat (turnover) values for the fibrin-dependent activation of plasminogen over type II tPA, while type D tPA showed the highest turnover rate. In the presence of fibrinogen fragments, N-glycosylation of plasminogen at site 289 modulates the kinetics of association of enzyme and substrate, while N-glycosylation at site 184 on tPA modulates the turnover rate of the enzyme."	1995	Feb-17	270	7	3261-7	7852411	0
549	"Morris, AT and Dwek, RA"	Some recent applications of the use of paramagnetic centres to probe biological systems using nuclear magnetic resonance	Q Rev Biophys		1977	Nov	10	4	421-84	203973	0
550	"Morris, AT"	Comparison by 1H NMR of the hapten environment in the combining site of the dinitrophenyl binding IgA protein 315 and its fragments	Immunochemistry		1978	Aug	15	8	519-22	730222	0
551	"Mortimer, JE"	Feasibility and efficacy of weekly intraarterial cisplatin in locally advanced (stage III and IV) head and neck cancers	J Clin Oncol	"Thirty-five consecutive patients with primary unresectable head and neck cancers were considered eligible for protocol treatment with neoadjuvant intraarterial cisplatin. External carotid artery catheterizations were technically feasible in 29 patients (83%). Twenty-five patients with 28 primary tumors received intraarterial cisplatin, 100 mg/m2, every seven to 14 days for three cycles. The most common toxicity was nausea and vomiting. Ipsilateral hemialopecia, transient VII nerve palsy, and blurring of vision seem to be unique to this route of administration at this dose. A complete response was seen at the primary tumor site in nine of 28 (32%), with 14 of 28 partial responses (50%). In evaluating both primary tumor and nodal disease, five of 25 patients achieved a complete response and 15 of 25 a partial response. In previous reports, one complete response was observed in 74 patients with head and neck cancer treated with neoadjuvant intravenous (IV) cisplatin every 3 weeks. The overall response of 82% reported here is comparable to that reported with combination chemotherapy and suggests an advantage to the arterial administration of cisplatin when possible in the neoadjuvant setting."	1988	Jun	6	6	969-75	3373266	0
552	"Mortimer, JE and Taylor, ME"	Can chemotherapy alter the histologic features of breast cancer?	Am J Clin Pathol		1994	Aug	102	2	147-9	8042578	0
553	"Mortimer, JE and Taylor, ME"	Positron emitting 18F-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose: potential hot new therapy	Breast Cancer Res	"Preclinical studies suggest that 18F-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose (18F-FDG) kills breast cancer cells without significant marrow toxicity or parenchymal toxicity. Radiation dose calculations estimated from fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography images in women with metastatic disease indicate that 18F-FDG should be a feasible and safe option in humans. Because the available radiotherapeutic agents, strontium 89 and samarium 153 provide palliation to a limited population of women with bony metastases, new radiopharmaceutical agents with broader applicability are needed. The development of 18F-FDG as the first positron-emitting radiotherapeutic has the potential to be an innovative treatment, not only in osteoblastic disease, but also in osteolytic disease and in soft tissue metastases."	2003		5	6	329-31	14580251	0
554	"Moxley, MJ"	Herpes simplex virus type 1 infection prevents detachment of nerve growth factor-differentiated PC12 cells in culture	J Gen Virol	"In tissue culture, rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells differentiated with nerve growth factor (NGF) cease division, extend neuritic processes and acquire many properties characteristic of neuronal cells. In previous work, we have shown that NGF-differentiated PC12 cells can survive infection with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and maintain the viral genome in a quiescent but reactivatable state. In this study, we report that uninfected NGF-differentiated PC12 cells uniformly and predictably detach from the culture flask substratum after approximately 7 weeks. Although uninfected cells were uniformly lost from the culture by 7 weeks, surprisingly HSV-1-infected cells survived beyond 10 weeks, the time limit of the study. The detachment of uninfected cells was not the result of cell death or apoptosis, as determined by viability assays performed on cells after detachment. Expression of the HSV-1 latency associated transcript (LAT) gene and virus replication was not necessary for the virus to suppress the 'detachment' phenomenon, since NGF-differentiated PC12 cells infected with either wild-type, DNA polymerase mutant or LAT null mutant virus survived in culture for similar lengths of time. Viral gene expression does appear to be necessary for the suppression, however, since cells infected with UV-inactivated virus were lost from culture with kinetics similar to those of uninfected cells. These findings indicate that de novo viral gene synthesis mediates changes to the host NGF-differentiated PC12 cells, which results in prevention of detachment."	2002	Jul	83	Pt 7	1591-600	12075077	0
555	"Mullin, NP"	Characterization of ligand binding to a carbohydrate-recognition domain of the macrophage mannose receptor	J Biol Chem	"The extracellular portion of the macrophage mannose receptor, an endocytic receptor involved in clearance of glycoconjugates, contains eight domains related to the Ca(2+)-dependent carbohydrate-recognition domains (CRDs) of other C-type animal lectins. The characteristics of ligand binding to an expressed form of one of these CRDs (CRD-4) have been investigated. The expressed domain was found to be a monomer in solution. Results of a solid phase binding assay and a protease resistance assay show that CRD-4 of the mannose receptor undergoes a conformational rearrangement upon binding of Ca2+, correlating with its ability to bind sugar. CRD-4 requires two Ca2+ for sugar binding, even though sequence comparisons with other C-type CRDs suggested that it might bind only one Ca2+. The results are consistent with a ternary complex being formed between CRD-4, sugar, and Ca2+ as is seen in the crystal structure of the CRD of rat mannose-binding protein in complex with an oligosaccharide. The stability of Ca2+ binding is shown to be pH-dependent, a result that is pertinent to release of ligand by the receptor in the endosome. However, CRD-4 retains sugar binding activity at a lower pH than does the whole receptor, suggesting that the conformational change in this CRD alone may not be sufficient to allow release of ligand in the endosomes."	1994	Nov-11	269	45	28405-13	7961781	0
556	"Mullin, NP"	Mechanism of Ca2+ and monosaccharide binding to a C-type carbohydrate-recognition domain of the macrophage mannose receptor	J Biol Chem	"Site-directed mutagenesis has been used to identify residues that ligate Ca2+ and sugar to the fourth C-type carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) of the macrophage mannose receptor. CRD-4 is the only one of the eight CRDs of the mannose receptor to exhibit detectable monosaccharide binding when expressed in isolation, and it is central to ligand binding by the receptor. CRD-4 requires two Ca2+ for sugar binding, like the CRD of rat serum mannose-binding protein (MBP-A). Sequence comparisons between the two CRDs suggest that the binding site for one Ca2+, which ligates directly to the bound sugar in MBP-A, is conserved in CRD-4 but that the auxiliary Ca2+ binding site is not. Mutation of the four residues at positions in CRD-4 equivalent to the auxiliary Ca2+ binding site in MBP-A indicates that only one, Asn728, is involved in ligation of Ca2+. Alanine-scanning mutagenesis was used to identify two other asparagine residues and one glutamic acid residue that are probably involved in ligation of the auxiliary Ca2+ to CRD-4. Sequence comparisons with other C-type CRDs suggest that the proposed binding site for the auxiliary Ca2+ in CRD-4 of the mannose receptor is unique. Evidence that the conserved Ca2+ in CRD-4 bridges between the protein and bound sugar in a manner analogous to MBP-A was obtained by mutation of one of the amino acid side chains at this site. Ring current shifts seen in the 1H NMR spectra of methyl glycosides of mannose, GlcNAc, and fucose in the presence of CRD-4 and site-directed mutagenesis indicate that a stacking interaction with Tyr729 is also involved in binding of sugars to CRD-4. This interaction contributes about 25% of the total free energy of binding to mannose. C-5 and C-6 of mannose interact with Tyr729, whereas C-2 of GlcNAc is closest to this residue, indicating that these two sugars bind to CRD-4 in opposite orientations. Sequence comparisons with other mannose/GlcNAc-specific C-type CRDs suggest that use of a stacking interaction in the binding of these sugars is probably unique to CRD-4 of the mannose receptor."	1997	Feb-28	272	9	5668-81	9038177	0
557	"Myerson, RJ"	Simultaneous superficial hyperthermia and external radiotherapy: report of thermal dosimetry and tolerance to treatment	Int J Hyperthermia	"BACKGROUND: In vitro and animal studies indicate that a moderate temperature of 41 degrees C maintained for approximately 1 h will provide radiosensitization if radiation (RT) and hyperthermia (HT) are delivered simultaneously, but not with sequential treatment. A minimum tumour temperature of 41 degrees C is a more feasible goal than the goal of >42 degrees C needed for sequential treatment. METHODS AND MATERIALS: Forty-four patients with 47 recurrent superficial cancers received simultaneous external beam radiotherapy and superficial hyperthermia on successive IRB approved phase I/II studies. All lesions had failed previous therapy, 35 were previously irradiated (mean dose 52.7 Gy). Hyperthermia was delivered with 915 MHz microwave or 1-3.5 MHz ultrasound using commercially available applicators. The average dimensions of 19 lesions treated with microwave were 4.7 x 3.6 x 1.7 cm and the average dimensions of 28 lesions treated with ultrasound were 8.0 x 6.1 x 2.9 cm. The most common sites were chest wall (15 cases) and head and neck (21 cases). Temperatures were monitored at an average of six intratumoral locations using multisensor probes. The median number of hyperthermia treatments was three and the median radiation dose 30 Gy. Radiation dose per fraction was 4 Gy with hyperthermia and 2 Gy or 4 Gy (depending on protocol) on non-hyperthermia days. RESULTS: Six different measures of minimum monitored temperature and duration were found to be highly correlated with each other. There was nearly a one-to-one correspondence between minimum tumour time at or above 41 degrees C (Min t41) and minimum tumour Sapareto Dewey equivalent time at 42 degrees C (Min teq42). After four sessions 63% of cases had a per session average Sapareto Dewey equivalent time at 41 degrees C which exceeded 60 min in all monitored tumour locations. The complete and partial response rate in evaluable lesions were respectively 21/41 (51%) and 7/41 (17%) and were best correlated with site (chest wall showing best response). Toxicity consisted of 10/47 (21%) slow healing soft tissue ulcers which healed in all cases but required a median of 7 months. The most important predictors for chronic ulceration were cumulative radiation dose >80 Gy and complete response to treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Minimum tumour temperatures maintained for durations compatible in vitro with thermal radiosensitization (if RT and HT are delivered simultaneously) are clinically feasible and tolerable for broad but superficial lesions amenable to externally applied ultrasound or microwave hyperthermia. The current in-house protocol is evaluating the impact of more than four hyperthermia sessions on the overall thermal dose distribution and toxicity."	1999	Jul-Aug	15	4	251-66	10458566	0
558	"Nahas, GG"	Psychoactive cannabinoids and membrane signaling	Hum Psychopharmacol	"THC-like psychoactive cannabinoids permeate the lipid bilayer of the membrane, altering its physicochemical properties and activating phospholipases. As a result, an increased production of arachidonic acid occurs with its cascade of eicosanoids, including prostaglandins. In addition, THC and its psychoactive derivatives bind within the membrane in a stereospecific fashion, to a transmembrane G protein coupled receptor (GPCR) for which THC has a much higher affinity than the natural ligands, arachidonylethanolamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonyglycerol (2-AG). These natural lipid ligands may be considered signaling molecules which are generated in the membrane lipid bilayer. THC alters the physicochemical disposition of the lipid bilayer and interacts with the integral membrane protein receptors through alteration of the boundary lipid. This effect is distinct from the mechanism resulting from its persistent binding to a G protein coupled transmembrane receptor. THC does not interact directly with neurotransmitter receptors but alters their pharmacological response in an allosteric fashion. It is proposed that the binding of AEA and 2-AG to the G protein coupled transmembrane receptor possesses a physiological function which is to regulate the signaling between boundary lipids and membrane receptors in response to extracellular signals. AEA and 2-AG are eicosanoid signaling molecules which modulate the activity of G protein coupled transmembrane receptors. AEA and 2-AG should not be identified with synthetic ligand molecules dubbed 'endogenous cannabinoids' which are 'xenobiotics' with no physiological regulating function. THC deregulates persistently a basic signaling mechanism of the membrane lipid bilayer and of its integrated receptors with resulting impairment of cellular function of brain, heart and male gonads. Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd."	2000	Oct	15	7	535-549	12404624	0
559	"Nahas, G"	A molecular basis of the therapeutic and psychoactive properties of cannabis (delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol)	Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry	"All of the therapeutic properties of marihuana (analgesic, antiemetic, appetite stimulant, antiglaucoma) have been duplicated by the tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) molecule or its synthetic derivatives. Today, the molecular mechanisms of action of these compounds have led to a general understanding of the pharmacological effects of marihuana and of its therapeutic properties. These mechanisms involve the specific binding of THC to the 7-transmembrane (7TM) domain G protein-linked receptor, a molecular switch which regulates signal transduction in the cell membrane. The natural ligand of the 7TM receptor is an eicosanoid, arachidonylethanolamide (AEA), generated in the membrane and derived from arachidonic acid. THC acts as a substitute ligand to the 7TM receptor site of AEA. THC would deregulate the physiological function of the 7TM receptor and of its ligand AEA. As a result, the therapeutic effects of the drug may not be separated from its adverse psychoactive and cardiovascular effects. The binding of THC to the 7TM receptor site of AEA induces allosteric changes in the receptor sites of neurotransmitter and opiates resulting in variable interactions and pharmacological responses. The pharmacokinetics of THC with its prolonged storage in fat and its slow release result in variable and delayed pharmacological response, which precludes precise dosing to achieve timely therapeutic effects. The experimental use of THC and of its synthetic analogues, agonists, and antagonists has provided novel information in the nature of molecular signaling in the cell membrane. As a result, the relationships between allosteric receptor responsiveness, molecular configuration of proteins, and physiological regulation of cellular and organ function may be further investigated."	2002	May	26	4	721-30	12188105	0
560	"Napper, CE"	An extended conformation of the macrophage mannose receptor	J Biol Chem	"The macrophage mannose receptor mediates phagocytosis of pathogenic microorganisms and endocytosis of potentially harmful soluble glycoproteins by recognition of their defining carbohydrate structures. The mannose receptor is the prototype for a family of receptors each having an extracellular region consisting of 8-10 domains related to C-type carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs), a fibronectin type II repeat and an N-terminal cysteine-rich domain. Hydrodynamic analysis and proteolysis experiments performed on fragments of the extracellular region of the receptor have been used to investigate its conformation. Size and shape parameters derived from sedimentation and diffusion coefficients indicate that the receptor is a monomeric, elongated and asymmetric molecule. Proteolysis experiments indicate the presence of close contacts between several pairs of domains and exposed linker regions separating CRDs 3 and 6 from their neighboring domains. Hydrodynamic coefficients predicted for modeled receptor conformations are consistent with an extended conformation with close contacts between three pairs of CRDs. The N-terminal cysteine-rich domain and the fibronectin type II repeat appear to increase the rigidity of the molecule. The rigid, extended conformation of the receptor places domains with different functions at distinct positions with respect to the membrane."	2001	May-04	276	18	14759-66	11279067	0
561	"Napper, CE and Taylor, ME"	The mannose receptor fails to enhance processing and presentation of a glycoprotein antigen in transfected fibroblasts	Glycobiology	"One function proposed for the mannose receptor found on dendritic cells as well as on macrophages and hepatic endothelial cells is in enhancing uptake and processing of glycoprotein antigens for presentation by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules. In this study, a direct assessment of the possible role of the mannose receptor in this process was made in the absence of other endocytic receptors that can internalize glycoproteins. Presentation of RNase A and B peptides was compared in transfected fibroblasts coexpressing the mannose receptor and MHC class II molecules. RNase B bears a high-mannose oligosaccharide and is a ligand for the mannose receptor, whereas RNase A is not glycosylated and is taken up by pinocytosis. Incubation of RNase A or B with the transfected cells resulted in identical stimulation of ribonuclease-specific T cells, indicating that endocytosis of the glycosylated protein by the mannose receptor does not enhance presentation of this antigen. The postulated role of the mannose receptor in presentation of glycoprotein-derived antigen is reevaluated in light of these results."	2004	Oct	14	10	7C-12C	15190005	0
562	"Napper, CE"	Collagen binding by the mannose receptor mediated through the fibronectin type II domain	Biochem J	"The macrophage mannose receptor is the prototype for a family of receptors each having an extracellular region consisting of an N-terminal cysteine-rich domain related to the R-type carbohydrate-recognition domain of ricin, a fibronectin type II domain and eight to ten domains related to C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains. The mannose receptor acts as a molecular scavenger, clearing harmful glycoconjugates or micro-organisms through recognition of their defining carbohydrate structures. Cell-adhesion assays, as well as collagen-binding assays, have now been used to show that the mannose receptor can also bind collagen and that the fibronectin type II domain mediates this activity. Neither of the two types of sugar-binding domain in the receptor is involved in collagen binding. Fibroblasts expressing the mannose receptor adhere to type I, type III and type IV collagens, but not to type V collagen, and the adherence is inhibited by isolated mannose receptor fibronectin type II domain. The fibronectin type II domain shows the same specificity for collagen as the whole receptor, binding to type I, type III and type IV collagens. This is the first activity assigned to the fibronectin type II domain of the mannose receptor. The results suggest additional roles for this multifunctional receptor in mediating collagen clearance or cell-matrix adhesion."	2006	May-01	395	3	579-86	16441238	0
563	"Navazio, L"	Monitoring endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi traffic of a plant calreticulin by protein glycosylation analysis	Biochemistry	"Calreticulin is a ubiquitous and highly conserved Ca(2+)-binding protein that is involved in intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis and molecular chaperoning in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Plant calreticulin, in contrast to its animal counterpart, is often glycosylated: its N-glycans have been shown so far to be of the high-mannose type, typical of ER-resident glycoproteins. During the characterization of calreticulin from vegetative and reproductive tissues of Liriodendron tulipifera L., we gained some biochemical evidence that prompted us to investigate the monosaccharide composition and primary structure of the calreticulin N-glycans isolated from the ovary of this dicotyledon tree. The structures of the components of the N-glycan pool were elucidated by HPLC analysis and exoglycosidase sequencing, and further confirmed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry. The 16 identified oligosaccharide structures, which consisted of both the high-mannose and complex type, are indicative of calreticulin glycan processing through the ER-to-Golgi pathway up to the medial and trans Golgi stacks. Approximately 45% of calreticulin glycan chains are of the complex type, always containing beta(1,2)-xylose, and approximately a third of these also contain alpha(1,3)-fucose in the core. The most complex glycoform harbors the Lewis-a epitope Gal(beta)1-3[Fuc(alpha)1-4]GlcNAc. Immunolocalization of calreticulin with anti-calreticulin antibodies was consistent with protein transit through the Golgi. Thus, although it contains the tetrapeptide HDEL ER retention signal, the reticuloplasmin calreticulin possesses the competence to transit from the ER compartment to the distal Golgi stacks. The final fate of the protein after its complete maturation is still obscure."	2002	Dec-03	41	48	14141-9	12450377	474
564	"Naven, TJ and Harvey, DJ"	Effect of structure on the signal strength of oligosaccharides in matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry on time-of-flight and magnetic sector instruments	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"The signal strength of the MNa+ ion from 25 underivatized oligosaccharides (linear, and both O- and N-linked oligosaccharides from glycoproteins) was measured by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry on a time-of-flight and on a magnetic sector instrument with 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid as the matrix, in order to examine the influence of structure on ion abundance. Oligosaccharides with masses greater than about 1000 Da exhibited similar signal strengths, irrespective of structure, when examined on the time-of-flight instrument. Oligosaccharides with masses below 1000 Da displayed a progressive reduction in signal intensity with decreasing molecular weight, an effect which was probably due to temporary saturation of the detector by the intense matrix ions (m/z 130-200 region). Similar studies performed on a magnetic sector instrument revealed that all oligosaccharides studied produced signals of equivalent intensity and that no reduction in signal strength occurred with the smaller sugars. The compounds could be measured with a precision of +/- 5% on this instrument. The nature of the matrix did not appear to exert a differential effect on the ionization of sugars of different structural types although some matrices appeared to have a preference for ionization of smaller molecules."	1996		10	11	1361-6	8805844	0
565	"Naven, TJ"	Fragmentation of complex carbohydrates following ionization by matrix-assisted laser desorption with an instrument fitted with time-lag focusing	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight spectra of carbohydrates recorded with an instrument using time-lag focusing (delayed extraction) were found to exhibit fragment ions, whereas, in the non time-lag-focusing mode, fragment ions were not observed. Fragment ions consisted both of glycosidic and cross-ring cleavage products whose absolute, but not relative abundance increased with the delay time and indicated that they were formed within the ion source. Only the glycosidic cleavage ions were present in post-source decay spectra and their abundance was inversely correlated with the delay time. The results indicated that the cross-ring cleavages were predominately the products of fast reactions whereas the glycosidic cleavages occurred over a longer time frame."	1997		11	15	1681-6	9364797	0
566	"Neefus, MS and Taylor, ME"	Educational needs of hysterectomy patients	Patient Couns Health Educ	"This exploratory study determined specific educational needs of hysterectomy patients. The study population consisted of patients who had successfully undergone hysterectomies performed by four gynecologists within the two years prior to the study. A questionnaire was developed, tested, revised, and subsequently returned by 146 women. Most questions were designed to elicit information on (1) what patients wanted to know, (2) when they wanted the information, and (3) whether this information was obtained. Data regarding the first two questions were examined in relation to the demographic variables of age, education, occupation, pregnancy outcomes, and employment. Results showed that hysterectomy patients wanted more explanation of all topics. The topic most often (92%) rated very important was physical effects of the surgery. Women between 31 and 40 years of age valued as most important was the sexuality topics. Ninety-four percent indicated they most wanted the information before hospitalization. Twenty percent reported receiving no information about possible psychological or sexual problems. Conclusions drawn from this study are that there is an urgent need for structured patient education about hysterectomy; that patients have a need for information on the physical, psychological, and sexual aspects of hysterectomy; and that this information is needed before entering the hospital, pre- and postsurgery, and after returning home."	1982	4th Quart	3	4	150-5	10255736	0
567	"Negroiu, G"	Investigation of the intracellular transport of tyrosinase and tyrosinase related protein (TRP)-1. The effect of endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-glucosidases inhibition	Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand)	"Melanin biosynthesis is completely inhibited in the B16 melanoma cells following their incubation with inhibitors of the two ER glucosidases. This is primarily due to the inactivation of tyrosinase. Under the same conditions, the DOPA-oxidase activity of TRP-1 was only partially affected. In this report we investigate the effects of the perturbation of N-glycan processing in ER on the transport and activation of tyrosinase and TRP-1. We have localized the DOPA-oxidase activity in normal and inhibited cells and suggest that the first DOPA-reactive compartment of the secretory pathway (trans Golgi network) is also the site of tyrosinase activation. The inhibition of N-glycan processing does not affect the intracellular trafficking of the two melanogenic enzymes that are correctly transported to melanosomes. Immunoprecipitation experiments followed by analysis in SDS-PAGE under non-reducing conditions suggest that in inhibited cells, both tyrosinase and TRP-1 are synthesized in a modified conformation as compared to the normal proteins. These data suggest that the inhibition of melanin synthesis is not due to a defective transport but rather to conformational changes induced in the structure of tyrosinase and TRP-1 during their transit through the ER."	1999	Nov	45	7	1001-10	10644004	0
568	"Negroiu, G"	Protein specific N-glycosylation of tyrosinase and tyrosinase-related protein-1 in B16 mouse melanoma cells	Biochem J	"Tyrosinase and tyrosinase-related protein-1 (TRP-1) are two melanogenic enzymes that regulate melanin biosynthesis. Both are glycoproteins and belong to the TRP-1 gene family. They share a significant level of sequence similarity in several regions, including the catalytic domain and the potential N-glycosylation sites. We have recently shown that inhibition of the early steps of N-glycan processing in B16F1 cells dramatically affects tyrosinase activity and melanin synthesis. We present here results on N-glycan processing of TRP-1 and tyrosinase and compare the maturation process and activity of both glycoproteins in the presence of inhibitors of the endoplasmic reticulum stages of N-glycosylation. N-glycan analysis reveals that each of these two glycoproteins contains a mixture of high-mannose and sialylated complex N-glycans. However, in contrast to TRP-1, tyrosinase presents a homogeneous high-mannose glycoform, also. In the presence of alpha-glucosidases inhibitors, the maturation of tyrosinase N-glycans is completely inhibited, whereas TRP-1 is still able to acquire some complex glycans, indicating that endomannosidase acts preferentially on the later glycoprotein. In addition, the dopa-oxidase activity of tyrosinase is totally abolished, whereas for TRP-1 it is only partially affected. The results suggest that despite their structural similarity, tyrosinase is more sensitive than TRP-1 to perturbations of early N-glycan processing, in terms of maturation and catalytical activity."	1999	Dec-15	344 Pt 3		659-65	10585852	0
569	"Negroiu, G"	Folding and maturation of tyrosinase-related protein-1 are regulated by the post-translational formation of disulfide bonds and by N-glycan processing	J Biol Chem	"In this study we have explored the endoplasmic reticulum associated events accompanying the maturation of the tyrosinase-related protein-1 (TRP-1) nascent chain synthesized in mouse melanoma cells. We show that TRP-1 folding process occurs much more rapidly than for tyrosinase, a highly homologous protein, being completed post-translationally by the formation of critical disulfide bonds. In cells pretreated with dithiothreitol (DTT), unfolded TRP-1 is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum by a prolonged interaction with calnexin and BiP before being targeted for degradation. The TRP-1 chain was able to fold into DTT-resistant conformations both in the presence or absence of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, but folding occurred through different pathways. During the normal folding pathway, TRP-1 interacts with calnexin. In the presence of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, the interaction with calnexin is prevented, with TRP-1 folding being assisted by BiP. In this case, the process has similar kinetics to that of untreated TRP-1 and yields a compact form insensitive to DTT as well. However, this form has different thermal denaturation properties than the native conformation. We conclude that disulfide bridge burring is crucial for the TRP-1 export. This suggests that although various folding pathways may complete this process, the native form may be acquired only through the normal unperturbed pathway."	2000	Oct-13	275	41	32200-7	10915799	0
570	"Negroiu, G"	The inhibition of early N-glycan processing targets TRP-2 to degradation in B16 melanoma cells	J Biol Chem	"Tyrosinase-related protein-2 (TRP-2) is a DOPAchrome tautomerase catalyzing a distal step in the melanin synthesis pathway. Similar to the other two melanogenic enzymes belonging to the TRP gene family, tyrosinase and TRP-1, TRP-2 is expressed in melanocytes and melanoma cells. Despite the increasing evidence of its efficiency as a melanoma antigen, little is known about the maturation and intracellular trafficking of TRP-2. Here we show that TRP-2 is mainly distributed in the TGN of melanoma cells instead of being confined solely to melanosomes. This, together with the plasma membrane occasional localization observed by immunofluorescence, suggest the TRP-2 participation in a recycling pathway, which could include or not the melanosomes. Using pulse-chase experiments we show that the TRP-2 polypeptide folds in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in the presence of calnexin, until it reaches a dithiothreitol-resistant conformation enabling its ER exit to the Golgi. If N-glycosylation inhibitors prevent the association with calnexin, the TRP-2 nascent chain undergoes an accelerated degradation process. This process is delayed in the presence of proteasomal inhibitors, indicating that the misfolded chain is retro-translocated from the ER into the cytosol and degraded in proteasomes. This is a rare example in which calnexin although indispensable for the nascent chain folding is not required for its targeting to degradation. Therefore TRP-2 may prove to be a good model to document the calnexin-independent retro-translocation process of proteasomally degraded proteins. Clearly, TRP-2 has a distinct maturation pathway from tyrosinase and TRP-1 and possibly a second regulatory function within the cell."	2003	Jul-18	278	29	27035-42	12719423	0
571	"Negroiu, G"	Tyrosinase-related protein-2 and -1 are trafficked on distinct routes in B16 melanoma cells	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	"Tyrosinase related protein (TRP)-1 and -2 regulate the main steps in melanin synthesis and are immune targets in skin cancer or autoimmune pigmentary disorders. We found that ionophore monensin (Mon) and the quaternary amine chloroquine (CQ) discriminate between the traffic routes of TRP-2 and TRP-1. TRP-2 N-glycan processing is interrupted by Mon between ER and trans-Golgi, whereas this process continues for TRP-1. Mature TRP-2 is diverted by CQ treatment to a degradation pathway which depends on functional vacuolar ATPases. Conversely, the subcellular distribution and stability of TRP-1 were not affected by CQ. We propose that TRP-2 is sorted and trafficked in the early secretory pathway with a cargo which does not include TRP-1; post Golgi, TRP-2 intersects the endocytic pathway following a route via early endosomes, possibly by rapid recycling from the plasma membrane. These data show that highly structural homologous glycoproteins use distinct trafficking pathways in the same cell."	2005	Mar-25	328	4	914-21	15707965	0
572	"Neises, GR"	Ultrastructural changes in the Golgi apparatus and secretory granules of HL-60 cells treated with the imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin	Biol Cell	"The imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin inhibits the N-linked oligosaccharide processing enzymes alpha-glucosidases I and II, and the ceramide specific glucosyltransferase which catalyses the first step in glucosphingolipid biosynthesis. We have studied the effects of this compound on the ultrastructure of HL-60 cells to identify novel activities of this compound. Treatment of HL-60 cells with this imino sugar results in several morphological changes within the cell, none of which result in cytotoxicity. The plasma membrane stains heavily with potassium ferrocyanide within 30 min following addition of the compound to the medium, and there is then a time dependent involvement of all other intracellular membranes. Secretory granules become enlarged and lose their dense core morphology and appear either empty and vacuolated or have low density contents. However, the most striking effect of NB-DNJ treatment is on the Golgi apparatus. The Golgi exhibits a time-dependent change from typical Golgi morphology to a structure almost completely devoid of cisternae and consisting predominantly of vesicles. All the observed changes are fully reversible on withdrawal of the compound."	1997	May	89	2	123-31	9351192	0
573	"Neville, DC"	Analysis of fluorescently labeled glycosphingolipid-derived oligosaccharides following ceramide glycanase digestion and anthranilic acid labeling	Anal Biochem	"Interest in cellular glycosphingolipid (GSL) function has necessitated the development of a rapid and sensitive method to both analyze and characterize the full complement of structures present in various cells and tissues. An optimized method to characterize oligosaccharides released from glycosphingolipids following ceramide glycanase digestion has been developed. The procedure uses the fluorescent compound anthranilic acid (2-aminobenzoic acid; 2-AA) to label oligosaccharides prior to analysis using normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. The labeling procedure is rapid, selective, and easy to perform and is based on the published method of Anumula and Dhume [Glycobiology 8 (1998) 685], originally used to analyze N-linked oligosaccharides. It is less time consuming than a previously published 2-aminobenzamide labeling method [Anal. Biochem. 298 (2001) 207] for analyzing GSL-derived oligosaccharides, as the fluorescent labeling is performed on the enzyme reaction mixture. The purification of 2-AA-labeled products has been improved to ensure recovery of oligosaccharides containing one to four monosaccharide units, which was not previously possible using the Anumula and Dhume post-derivatization purification procedure. This new approach may also be used to analyze both N- and O-linked oligosaccharides."	2004	Aug-15	331	2	275-82	15265733	0
574	"Newton, JP"	CD31 (PECAM-1) exists as a dimer and is heavily N-glycosylated	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	"CD31 (PECAM-1) is a highly abundant cell surface glycoprotein expressed on hemopoietic and endothelial cells where it functions as a homophilic adhesion and signaling receptor. Since dimerization and appropriate glycosylation are important features in the regulation of cell surface interactions and signal transduction, we studied the pattern of glycosylation as well as the ability of CD31 to undergo dimerization, both in solution and when expressed on cell membranes. CD31 is heavily glycosylated, with an approximate carbohydrate content of 21%. Nineteen neutral and thirteen sialylated glycans were identified. Ultracentrifugation analysis showed that soluble recombinant CD31 exists in equilibrium between a monomer and a dimer with an approximate dissociation constant of 12.5 microM. Chemical cross-linking studies of both soluble and membrane-expressed CD31 confirmed that CD31 exists as a dimer. These studies suggest that, like E-cadherin, PECAM-dimerization is likely to play a role in CD31 adhesion and signaling."	1999	Aug-02	261	2	283-91	10425179	0
575	"Ng, TC"	Human neoplasm pH and response to radiation therapy: P-31 MR spectroscopy studies in situ	Radiology	"Thirty-five human neoplasms from various sites and of various histologic types and stages were examined with phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy in situ. The tumors included 13 squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (lymph nodes), eight Hodgkin lymphomas, six non-Hodgkin lymphomas, four carcinomas of the breast, one melanoma, one sarcoma, one neuroblastoma, and one mucoepidermoid sarcoma of the salivary glands. Thirty-four of the neoplasms had normal to slightly alkaline pH before irradiation. During fractionated radiation therapy, the pH stayed in a range of from near neutral to alkaline and rose to 7.6-8.0 at several time points of radiation therapy for some tumors. These results suggest that most tumor cells in human neoplasms are well oxygenated and that only a negligible fraction are chronic hypoxic cells. The fluctuating alkaline pH during radiation therapy occurred regardless of the responsiveness of the treated tumors."	1989	Mar	170	3 Pt 1	875-8	2916046	0
576	"Ng, KK"	Structural analysis of monosaccharide recognition by rat liver mannose-binding protein	J Biol Chem	"The structural basis of carbohydrate recognition by rat liver mannose-binding protein (MBP-C) has been explored by determining the three-dimensional structure of the C-type carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) of MBP-C using x-ray crystallography. The structure was solved by molecular replacement using rat serum mannose-binding protein (MBP-A) as a search model and was refined to maximum Bragg spacings of 1.7 A. Despite their almost identical folds, the dimeric structures formed by the two MBP CRDs differ dramatically. Complexes of MBP-C with methyl glycosides of mannose, N-acetylglucosamine, and fucose were prepared by soaking MBP-C crystals in solutions containing these sugars. Surprisingly, the pyranose ring of mannose is rotated 180 degrees relative to the orientation observed previously in MBP-A, but the local interactions between sugar and protein are preserved. For each of the bound sugars, vicinal, equatorial hydroxyl groups equivalent to the 3- and 4-OH groups of mannose directly coordinate Ca2+ and form hydrogen bonds with residues also serving as Ca2+ ligands. Few interactions are observed between other parts of the sugar and the protein. A complex formed between free galactose and MBP-C reveals a similar mode of binding, with the anomeric hydroxyl group serving as one of the Ca2+ ligands. A second binding site for mannose has also been observed in one of two copies in the asymmetric unit at a sugar concentration of 1.3 M. These structures explain how MBPs recognize a wide range of monosaccharides and suggest how fine specificity differences between MBP-A and MBP-C may be achieved."	1996	Jan-12	271	2	663-74	8557671	0
577	"Ng, KK"	Orientation of bound ligands in mannose-binding proteins. Implications for multivalent ligand recognition	J Biol Chem	"Mannose-binding proteins (MBPs) are C-type animal lectins that recognize high mannose oligosaccharides on pathogenic cell surfaces. MBPs bind to their carbohydrate ligands by forming a series of Ca(2+) coordination and hydrogen bonds with two hydroxyl groups equivalent to the 3- and 4-OH of mannose. In this work, the determinants of the orientation of sugars bound to rat serum and liver MBPs (MBP-A and MBP-C) have been systematically investigated. The crystal structures of MBP-A soaked with monosaccharides and disaccharides and also the structure of the MBP-A trimer cross-linked by a high mannose asparaginyl oligosaccharide reveal that monosaccharides or alpha1-6-linked mannose bind to MBP-A in one orientation, whereas alpha1-2- or alpha1-3-linked mannose binds in an orientation rotated 180 degrees around a local symmetry axis relating the 3- and 4-OH groups. In contrast, a similar set of ligands all bind to MBP-C in a single orientation. The mutation of MBP-A His(189) to its MBP-C equivalent, valine, causes Man alpha 1-3Man to bind in a mixture of orientations. These data combined with modeling indicate that the residue at this position influences the orientation of bound ligands in MBP. We propose that the control of binding orientation can influence the recognition of multivalent ligands. A lateral association of trimers in the cross-linked crystals may reflect interactions within higher oligomers of MBP-A that are stabilized by multivalent ligands."	2002	May-03	277	18	16088-95	11850428	0
578	"Ng, AK"	Construction of a herpes simplex virus type 1 mutant with only a three-nucleotide change in the branchpoint region of the latency-associated transcript (LAT) and the stability of its two-kilobase LAT intron	J Virol	"Previous studies using a eukaryotic expression system indicated that the unusual stability of the latency-associated transcript (LAT) intron was due to its nonconsensus branchpoint sequence (T.-T Wu, Y.-H. Su, T. M. Block, and J. M. Taylor, Virology, 243:140-149, 1998). The present study investigated the role of the branchpoint sequence in the stability of the intron expressed from the herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) genome and the role of LAT intron stability in the HSV-1 life cycle. A branchpoint mutant called Sy2 and the corresponding rescued viruses, SyRA and SyRB, were constructed. To preserve the coding sequence of the immediate early gene icp0, which overlaps with the branchpoint region of the 2-kb LAT, a 3-nucleotide mutation into the branchpoint region of the 2-kb LAT was introduced, resulting in a branchpoint that is 85% identical to the consensus intron branchpoint sequence of eukaryotic cells. As anticipated, there was a 90- to 96-fold reduction in 2-kb LAT accumulation following productive infection in tissue culture and latent infection in mice with Sy2, as determined by Northern blot analysis. These results clearly suggest that the accumulation of the 2-kb intron in tissue culture and in vivo is, at least in part, due to the nonconsensus branchpoint sequence of the LAT intron. Interestingly, a failure to accumulate LAT was associated with greater progeny production of Sy2 at a low multiplicity of infection (0.01) in tissue culture, but not in mice. However, the ability of mutant Sy2 to reactivate from trigeminal ganglia (TG) derived from latently infected mice was indistinguishable from that of wild-type virus, as assayed in the mouse TG explant reactivation system."	2004	Nov	78	22	12097-106	15507596	0
579	"Norris-Cervetto, E"	Inhibition of glucosylceramide synthase does not reverse drug resistance in cancer cells	J Biol Chem	"The multidrug-resistant cancer cell lines NCI/AdR(RES) and MES-SA/DX-5 have higher glycolipid levels and higher P-glycoprotein expression than the chemosensitive cell lines MCF7-wt and MES-SA. Inhibiting glycolipid biosynthesis by blocking glucosylceramide synthase has been proposed to reverse drug resistance in MDR cells by causing an increased accumulation of proapoptotic ceramide during treatment of cells with cytotoxic drugs. We treated both multidrug-resistant cell lines with the glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors PDMP (d-threo-1-phenyl-2-decanoylamino-3-morpholino-1-propanol), C9DGJ (N-nonyl-deoxygalactonojirimycin) or C4DGJ (N-butyl-deoxygalactonojirimycin). PDMP achieved a significant reversal of drug resistance in agreement with previous reports. However, the N-alkylated iminosugars C9DGJ and C4DGJ, which are more selective glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors than PDMP, failed to cause any reversal of drug resistance despite depleting glycolipids to the same extent as PDMP. Our results suggest that (a) inhibition of glucosylceramide synthase does not reverse multidrug resistance and (b) the chemosensitization achieved by PDMP cannot be caused by inhibition of glucosylceramide synthase alone."	2004	Sep-24	279	39	40412-8	15263008	0
580	"Norris-Cervetto, E"	Can P-glycoprotein influence the bioavailability of iminosugar-based glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors?	Eur J Pharmacol	"Recently developed glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors with enhanced hydrophobicity display increased bioavailability in the central nervous system (CNS). Have these improvements come at a potential risk given that the improved glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors bear the hallmarks of P-glycoprotein substrates? This question warrants attention given the potential to induce adverse drug interactions or toxicity, if glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors are administered with other P-glycoprotein substrates. The aim of this study was to determine if glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors are substrates for the multidrug transporter P-glycoprotein. Direct measurements of glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors binding to P-glycoprotein were examined, as was their ability to modulate transport by the protein. The more hydrophobic glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors caused a reduction in drug binding to P-glycoprotein. However, the compounds did not achieve this by direct interaction with the protein, but through a general membrane perturbation. Furthermore, the alterations in drug-P-glycoprotein interaction did not manifest as altered cellular accumulation of glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors or altered efficacy to reduce cellular glycolipid levels. Consequently, P-glycoprotein expression will not contribute significantly to the pharmacokinetic profile of the iminosugar glucosylceramide synthase inhibitors."	2006	Jan-20	530	3	195-204	16403499	0
581	"Norton, PA"	Hepatitis B virus-mediated changes of apolipoprotein mRNA abundance in cultured hepatoma cells	J Virol	An inverse correlation between hepatitis B virus (HBV) and steady-state levels of apolipoprotein AI and CIII mRNAs was observed in two hepatoma cell lines. Analysis of a third line containing an inducible viral genome implicated viral pregenomic RNA in apolipoprotein mRNA reduction. We conclude that HBV alters infected cells despite the absence of overt cytopathogenicity.	2003	May	77	9	5503-6	12692252	0
582	"Norton, PA"	Assays for glucosidase inhibitors with potential antiviral activities: secreted alkaline phosphatase as a surrogate marker	J Virol Methods	"As secretion of the middle (MHBs) glycoprotein of hepatitis B virus is highly dependent upon the action of the host oligosaccharide processing enzymes glucosidase I and II, drugs that inhibit this enzyme have been proposed as potential antiviral agents. To facilitate the identification of new, more effective inhibitors of MHBs secretion, an assay has been developed based on the expression of this glycoprotein alone by transfection of Huh7 hepatoma cells. The data clearly demonstrate that both mono- and di-glycosylated forms of MHBs are produced in this system and both forms are equally dependent upon glucosidase processing for secretion. In addition, inclusion of a co-transfected reporter construct that encodes secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) to permit normalization of transfection revealed that the SEAP gene product was itself sensitive to glucosidase inhibition. This sensitivity also was observed in HepG2 human hepatoma cells. Thus, measuring SEAP secretion may be another method for evaluating glucosidase inhibition. In addition, this finding has important implications for the use of a SEAP reporter in screens of potential antiviral agents."	2005	Mar	124	01-Feb	167-72	15664065	0
583	"O'Leary, JM"	Identification and removal of O-linked and non-covalently linked sugars from recombinant protein produced using Pichia pastoris	Protein Expr Purif	"The use of the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris for large-scale recombinant production of proteins for therapeutic uses and/or biophysical characterisation has been gaining popularity. Here we describe the use of this organism for the production of a von Willebrand factor C domain from procollagen IIA for solution NMR studies. In this research, we specifically identified sites of O-linked glycosylation on the expressed protein, although the native protein is not glycosylated. We demonstrated that it was possible to remove the oligosaccharides by enzymatic digestion, however this approach proved to be prohibitively expensive for the scale of production required for high-resolution structural studies by NMR spectroscopy. After removal of the O-linked glycosylation sites by site-directed mutagenesis, we confirmed that the protein was no longer covalently glycosylated. However, analysis by 1H- and 13C-edited spectroscopy identified the presence of non-covalently associated glycans which were removed by lectin affinity chromatography. We have synthesised methods for the identification and removal of both covalently and non-covalently bound oligosaccharides from heterologous protein expressed in P. pastoris."	2004	Dec	38	2	217-27	15555937	0
584	"O'Neill, EE"	Towards complete analysis of the platelet proteome	Proteomics	"Platelets exert a crucial function in haemostasis, wound repair, and the formation of vascular plugs, underlying thrombotic diseases such as stroke and myocardial infarction. Analysis of platelet biochemistry is largely dependent on protein analysis as platelets are anucleated cells providing little analytical target for DNA or RNA based strategies. Here we present data from our analysis of the human platelet proteome, the entire set of proteins building a platelet at a given point in time. Proteins were separated by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) using broad and narrow range pH gradients in the isoelectric focusing step. Consequently, a high-resolution 2-DE proteome map has been generated that comprises approximately 2300 different protein features. From the 536 protein features detected in the 4-5 pI range 284 features were identified by electrospray ionisation time of flight tandem mass spectrometry. These 284 proteins originate from 123 different open reading frames. This includes the five human proteins KIAA0193, KIAA0573, KIAA0830, WUGSC:H_DJ0777O23 protein, and cytokine receptor related protein 4, all isolated for the first time. The data are discussed with regard to proteome characteristics, protein function, and the high prevalence of signalling molecules. This study contributes to a more thorough and holistic understanding of platelet biology, helping to build the basis for future identification of new drug targets and therapeutic strategies."	2002	Mar	2	3	288-305	11921445	0
585	"Odiorne, TJ"	Chemical ionization mass spectrometry using tetramethylsilane	J Phys Chem		1972	Oct-26	76	22	3217-20	5080442	0
586	"Olafson, RW"	"Structures of the N-linked oligosaccharides of Gp63, the major surface glycoprotein, from Leishmania mexicana amazonensis"	J Biol Chem	"The extent of protein N-glycosylation in Leishmania mexicana amazonensis has been proposed to be a factor in the virulence of the parasite. The N-linked oligosaccharides of gp63, the major surface glycoprotein of L. mexicana amazonensis, were characterized after their release by hydrazinolysis, re-N-acetylation, and reduction with NaB3H4. High voltage paper electrophoresis of the reduced oligosaccharides revealed only neutral species. Gel-permeation chromatography on Bio-Gel P-4 yielded four fractions, and the oligosaccharides present were structurally characterized by sequential exoglycosidase digestion, fragmentation by acetolysis, and methylation analysis. Four major structures were found and were biantennary oligomannose type with compositions of Glc1Man6GlcNAc2 (La), Man6GlcNAc2 (Lb), Man5GlcNAc2 (Lc), and Man4GlcNAc2 (Ld). The largest oligosaccharide (La) was shown to contain a terminal glucopyranosyl residue on the alpha (1----3) arm. The biantennary oligomannose structures (Lb and Lc) and the glucosylated structure Glc1Man6GlcNAc2 (La) have not previously been reported as a component of a mature glycoprotein from any source."	1990	Jul-25	265	21	12240-7	2373691	0
587	"Oliver, RW"	The use of electrospray ionization MS to determine the structure of glycans in intact glycoproteins	Biochem Soc Trans		1996	Aug	24	3	917-27	8878875	0
588	"Omtvedt, LA"	Artefacts formed by addition of urea to N-linked glycans released with peptide-N-glycosidase F for analysis by mass spectrometry	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom		2004		18	19	2357-9	15384159	0
589	"Opdenakker, G"	Concepts and principles of glycobiology	Faseb J	"In biological systems oligosaccharides are normally conjugated to proteins or lipids. The heterogeneity and branching of oligosaccharides allow glycoconjugates to display a further level of structural and functional diversity compared with linear proteins and nucleic acids or with lipids. This review summarizes some general principles that are emerging from the new field of glycobiology which, by addressing the molecular interactions of glycoconjugates in biological systems, spans the classical physicochemical, biological, and biochemical sciences. We discuss the genesis of glycoforms, the functional roles for glycosylation, and some general aspects of structure/function relationships with reference to N-glycosylated animal glycoproteins including the enzymes ribonuclease and tissue plasminogen activator, IgG, the family of C-type lectins, and receptor ligands."	1993	Nov	7	14	1330-7	8224606	0
590	"Opdenakker, G"	Cells regulate the activities of cytokines by glycosylation	Faseb J	"Cytokines, including the interferons, interleukins, colony stimulating factors, and chemokines, are first-line, hormone-like defense molecules that orchestrate immune functions in a nonspecific, i.e., antigen-independent, way. The multiplicity of cytokines has a genetic basis, but oligomerization and especially glycosylation add to the heterogeneity and signaling functions of the cytokines. It is theorized that the cell uses glycosylation of cytokines to alter its functions. This is achieved by changing the specific biological activities, by altering diffusability, tissue distribution, and pharmacokinetics, and by targeting different populations of responsive cells. One interesting possibility is that multiple glycosylation forms compete for receptor binding resulting in a natural selection process or possibly antagonistic effects. Cytokines as ligands often are multimers and cytokine receptors are almost without exception heterodimers, which within receptor families share common subunits. Hence, carbohydrate-lectin interactions might contribute to ligand dimerization and receptor recognition through multivalent bindings."	1995	Mar	9	5	453-7	7896019	0
591	"Opdenakker, G"	"Remnant epitopes, autoimmunity and glycosylation"	Biochim Biophys Acta	"The role of extracellular proteolysis in innate and adaptive immunity and the interplay between cytokines, chemokines and proteinases are gradually becoming recognized as critical factors in autoimmune processes. Many of the involved proteinases, including those of the plasminogen activator and matrix metalloproteinase cascades, and also several cytokines and chemokines, are glycoproteins. The stability, interactions with inhibitors or receptors, and activities of these molecules are fine-controlled by glycosylation. We studied gelatinase B or matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) as a glycosylated enzyme involved in autoimmunity. In the joints of rheumatoid arthritis patients, CXC chemokines, such as interleukin-8/CXCL8, recruit and activate neutrophils to secrete prestored neutrophil collagenase/MMP-8 and gelatinase B/MMP-9. Gelatinase B potentiates interleukin-8 at least tenfold and thus enhances neutrophil and lymphocyte influxes to the joints. When cartilage collagen type II is cleaved at a unique site by one of several collagenases (MMP-1, MMP-8 or MMP-13), it becomes a substrate of gelatinase B. Human gelatinase B cleaves the resulting two large collagen fragments into at least 33 peptides of which two have been shown to be immunodominant, i.e., to elicit activation and proliferation of autoimmune T cells. One of these two remnant epitopes contains a glycan which is important for its immunoreactivity. In addition to the role of gelatinase B as a regulator in adaptive immune processes, we have also demonstrated that it destroys interferon-beta, a typical innate immunity effector molecule and therapeutic cytokine in multiple sclerosis. Furthermore, glycosylated interferon-beta, expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells, was more resistant to this proteolysis than recombinant interferon-beta from bacteria. These data not only prove that glycosylation of proteins is mechanistically important in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, but also show that targeting of glycosylated proteinases or the use of glycosylated cytokines seems also critical for the treatment of autoimmune diseases."	2006	Apr	1760	4	610-5	16439062	0
592	"Ounsted, M and Taylor, ME"	The postnatal growth of children who were small-for-dates or large-for-dates at birth	Dev Med Child Neurol		1971	Aug	13	4	421-34	4254233	0
593	"Ouzounov, S"	The combination of interferon alpha-2b and n-butyl deoxynojirimycin has a greater than additive antiviral effect upon production of infectious bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in vitro: implications for hepatitis C virus (HCV) therapy	Antiviral Res	"Interferon alpha-2b (IFN) alone or in combination with Ribavirin is approved in the United States for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. We have previously reported that the glucosidase inhibitor, n-butyl deoxynojirimycin (nB-DNJ) inhibits the production of infectious bovine diarrhea virus (BVDV) (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 96 (1999) 11878). Since BVDV has been used as a model for HCV and grows productively in tissue culture, and IFN and glucosidase inhibitors are thought to act at different steps in the virus life cycle, it was of interest to determine the antiviral impact of combining nB-DNJ with IFN. Using plaque reduction and single-step growth analyses of the cytopathic BVDV strain NADL, data are presented that shows human IFN inhibited BVDV production in a dose dependent manner, with 3 IU/ml inhibiting 50% of the yield of virus (IC50) when added within 1 h post infection. Under the same conditions, the glucosidase inhibitors nB-DNJ and castanospermine (CST) also prevented BVDV production in a dose dependent manner with IC50s of 226 microM and 47 microM, respectively. In combination with 138 microM nB-DNJ the apparent IC50 for IFN was 0.056 IU/ml. This 54-fold increase in IFN potency suggests that nB-DNJ can synergize with IFN. Two additional independent analyses were performed to measure combination effects which demonstrated that the combined antiviral effect of nB-DNJ and IFN were greater than would be expected for a simple additivity. These data are consistent with an interpretation that glucosidase inhibitors and IFN have a synergistic antiviral effect in tissue culture. The relevance of these finding to treatment of HCV infection is discussed."	2002	Sep	55	3	425-35	12206880	0
594	"Palamarczyk, G and Butters, TD"	Uptake of dolichol into cultured cells	FEBS Lett		1982	Jul-05	143	2	241-6	7117529	0
595	"Pao, YL"	Effect of serine O-glycosylation on cis-trans proline isomerization	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	"In order to examine the ability of an O-glycosylated serine residue preceding proline to stabilize a cis amide conformation in a fashion similar to that observed with aromatic amino acid residues, we prepared a series of glycosylated analogs of a small linear peptide which we have previous reported to contain a cis conformation of an amide bond between tyrosine and proline. The glycopeptides were prepared by incorporating glycosylated N alpha- (fluoren-9-yl) methoxycarbonyl (Fmoc) amino acids into a standard solid phase peptide synthesis protocol. The peptides and glycopeptides were analyzed using 2-dimensional NMR spectroscopy. Unlike the case where the residue preceding proline was tyrosine, no signals corresponding to a cis proline conformation were detected in the spectra of the two glycopeptides containing serine O-glycosylated with either beta-linked N-acetyl glucosamine or alpha-linked N-acetyl galactosamine in the position preceding proline."	1996	Feb-06	219	1	157-62	8619800	0
596	"Pardo, M"	Abnormal cell cycle regulation in primary human uveal melanoma cultures	J Cell Biochem	"Uveal malignant melanoma is the most frequent primary intraocular tumor in adult humans. The cellular events leading to neoplasic transformation of normal uveal melanocytes are not well known when compared to other cancers. In this study, we investigated the role of G1 and G1/S regulatory proteins of the cell cycle in human uveal melanoma (UM) primary cell cultures, since these proteins are common targets in tumor development. Further, freshly established and characterized tumor cells are a better model for in vitro studies when compared to cell lines established long ago. Human primary cell cultures from eight different UM were established, as well as one primary culture from rhesus uveal normal melanocytes (UNM). Primary human UM cultures were characterized by a low establishment and growing rate. From four successful cultures, three showed a high expression of cyclin D1, cyclin E, p16NK4A, and p27KIP1 with no variations in cyclin A, cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), and CDK4. Interestingly, in one of the cultured tumors, tumor suppressor protein retinoblastoma (Rb) did not bind E2F despite the fact that Rb was found in its hypophosphorylated form. No mutations in either RB1 or the Rb-binding pocket of E2F-1 were detected. Furthermore, we identified seven proteins co-immunoprecipitating with Rb in this tumor, including Lamin A/C and six proteins not previously reported to bind Rb: Hsc70, high mobility group protein 1 (HMG-1), hnRPN, glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PDH), EF-1, and EF-2. Our results indicate that the overexpression of cyclins D1/E and CDKIs p16 and p27, together with a deregulation of the Rb/E2F pathway, may be implicated in the development of human UM."	2004	Nov-01	93	4	708-20	15660415	0
597	"Pardo, M"	Proteome analysis of a human uveal melanoma primary cell culture by 2-DE and MS	Proteomics	"We present here the first proteomics analysis of uveal melanoma (UM) cells. These cells represent a good model for the identification of polypeptide markers, which could be developed as diagnostic tools. UM is the most common primary intraocular tumour in adults. In contrast to other cancers, the survival rate of patients with this malignancy has changed little over the past few decades; a better understanding of the molecular biology of UM oncogenesis and metastasis is needed to build the basis for the identification of novel drug targets. In the study presented here, proteins from a UM primary cell culture were separated by 2-DE using a pI 3-10 gradient; 270 spots were analysed by LC-MS/MS, identifying 683 proteins derived from 393 different genes. Of those, 69 (18%) are related to cancer processes involving cell division, proliferation, invasion, metastasis, oncogenesis, drug resistance and others. To our knowledge, 96% of the proteins identified, including 16 hypothetical proteins, have never been reported in UM before. This study represents the first step towards the establishment of a UM protein database as a valuable resource for the study of this malignancy."	2005	Dec	5	18	4980-93	16267820	0
598	"Pardo, M"	The characterization of the invasion phenotype of uveal melanoma tumour cells shows the presence of MUC18 and HMG-1 metastasis markers and leads to the identification of DJ-1 as a potential serum biomarker	Int J Cancer	"Uveal malignant melanoma (UM) is the most frequent primary intraocular tumour in adult humans. Because the survival rate of patients with UM has changed little in the past few decades, a better understanding of the molecular events governing UM development and the identification of markers indicating the potential for metastasis at the time of diagnosis are necessary to design improved and more specific treatments. In this study, we investigated UM tumour development by comparing two recently established UM cultures with different invasion potential by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Protein features expressed differentially were identified by mass spectrometric analysis. Potential markers were assayed in both cultures and in long-term established UM cell lines (UW-1, OCM-1, SP6.5 and 92.1) by Western blotting and their role in invasion analysed using Matrigel membranes. Comparative analysis revealed that UM cultures with low- and high-grade invasion potential differ in their cellular metabolism and, more interestingly, in several cancer-associated proteins, including those implicated in cell adhesion and migration, proliferation and various oncogenes. Our data indicate a correlation between MUC18 and HMG-1 expression and the invasiveness of UM cells. We also demonstrate the expression and secretion of DJ-1 oncoprotein by UM cells. We suggest a possible role for MUC18 and HMG-1 proteins in UM cell invasion. The secretion of DJ-1 by UM cells, and the ability to detect this protein in UM patients' sera implicate it as a potential noninvasive biomarker for this malignancy. (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc."	2006	Mar-28				16570276	0
599	"Parekh, RB"	Association of rheumatoid arthritis and primary osteoarthritis with changes in the glycosylation pattern of total serum IgG	Nature	"Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a widely prevalent (1-3%) chronic systemic disease thought to have an autoimmune component; both humoral and cellular mechanisms have been implicated. Primary osteoarthritis (OA) is considered to be distinct from rheumatoid arthritis, and here damage is thought to be secondary to cartilage degeneration. In rheumatoid arthritis, immune complexes are present that consist exclusively of immunoglobulin, implying that this is both the 'antibody' (rheumatoid factor [RF]) and the 'antigen' (most commonly IgG). Autoantigenic reactivity has been localized to the constant-region (C gamma 2) domains of IgG. There is no evidence for a polypeptide determinant but carbohydrate changes have been reported. We have therefore conducted a study, simultaneously in Oxford and Tokyo, to compare in detail the N-glycosylation pattern of serum IgG (Fig. 1) isolated from normal individuals and from patients with either primary osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis. The results, which required an evaluation of the primary sequences of approximately 1,400 oligosaccharides from 46 IgG samples, indicate that: (1) IgG isolated from normal individuals, patients with RA and patients with OA contains different distributions of asparagine-linked bi-antennary complex-type oligosaccharide structures, (2) in neither disease is the IgG associated with novel oligosaccharide structures, but the observed differences are due to changes in the relative extent of galactosylation compared with normal individuals. This change results in a 'shift' in the population of IgG molecules towards those carrying complex oligosaccharides, one or both of whose arms terminate in N-acetylglucosamine. These two arthritides may therefore be glycosylation diseases, reflecting changes in the intracellular processing, or post-secretory degradation of N-linked oligosaccharides."	1985	Aug 1-7	316	6027	452-7	3927174	0
600	"Parekh, RB"	"Tissue-specific N-glycosylation, site-specific oligosaccharide patterns and lentil lectin recognition of rat Thy-1"	Embo J	"To examine the extent to which protein structure and tissue-type influence glycosylation, we have determined the oligosaccharide structures at each of the three glycosylation sites (Asn-23, 74 and 98) of the cell surface glycoprotein Thy-1 isolated from rat brain and thymus. The results show that there is tissue-specificity of glycosylation and that superimposed on this is a significant degree of site-specificity. On the basis of the site distribution of oligosaccharides, we find that no Thy-1 molecules are in common between the two tissues despite the amino acid sequences being identical. We suggest, therefore, that by controlling N-glycosylation a tissue creates an unique set of glycoforms (same polypeptide but with oligosaccharides that differ either in sequence or disposition). The structures at each of the three sites were also determined for the thymocyte Thy-1 that binds to lentil lectin (Thy-1 L+) and for that which does not (Thy-1 L-). Segregation of intact thymus Thy-1 into two distinct sets of glycoforms by lentil lectin was found to be due to the structures at site 74. Analysis of oligosaccharide structures at the 'passenger' sites (23 and 98) suggests that either Thy-1 L+ and Thy-1 L- molecules are made in different cell-types or that the biosynthesis of oligosaccharides at one site is influenced by the glycosylation at other sites."	1987	May	6	5	1233-44	2886334	0
601	"Parekh, RB"	Galactosylation of IgG associated oligosaccharides: reduction in patients with adult and juvenile onset rheumatoid arthritis and relation to disease activity	Lancet	"The prevalence of agalactosyl N-linked oligosaccharides on serum IgG was determined for patients with juvenile onset and with adult rheumatoid arthritis. A significant difference in the prevalence of these structures from age matched controls was found in both types of arthritis. In patients with adult onset rheumatoid arthritis, the results showed a strong correlation between the prevalence of IgG-associated agalactosyl oligosaccharides and disease activity. A correlation between disease activity and agalactosyl structures was also seen in a retrospective analysis of serial IgG samples from patients with juvenile onset disease. The finding that childhood onset arthritis and adult rheumatoid arthritis share a defect of glycosylation of serum IgG suggests that there may be a greater similarity between these two varieties of rheumatoid arthritis than has been hitherto considered. The observation that the incidence of agalactosyl oligosaccharides on IgG fluctuates with disease activity provides indirect evidence for a seminal role for this change of glycosylation in the inflammatory process which, in rheumatoid arthritis, is focused on the synovial tissues and results in bone erosions and joint destruction."	1988	Apr-30	1	8592	966-9	2896829	0
602	"Parekh, RB"	Rheumatoid arthritis as a glycosylation disorder	Br J Rheumatol		1988		27 Suppl 2		162-9	3135870	0
603	"Parekh, RB"	N-glycosylation and in vitro enzymatic activity of human recombinant tissue plasminogen activator expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells and a murine cell line	Biochemistry	"To probe the effects of N-glycosylation on the fibrin-dependent plasminogenolytic activity of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), we have expressed a human recombinant t-PA (rt-PA) gene in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and in a murine C127 cell line. The resulting rt-PA glycoproteins were isolated and their associated N-linked oligosaccharide structures determined by using a combination of high-resolution Bio-Gel P-4 gel filtration chromatography, sequential exoglycosidase digestion, and methylation analysis. The results show that CHO rt-PA is N-glycosylated differently from murine C127 derived rt-PA. Further, both rt-PA's are N-glycosylated differently from t-PA derived from a human colon fibroblast and the Bowes melanoma cell line (Parekh et al., 1989), confirming that N-glycosylation of the human t-PA polypeptide is cell-type-specific. Both CHO and murine rt-PA were fractionated on lysine-Sepharose chromatography. The N-glycosylation of the major forms was analyzed and their fibrin-dependent plasminogenolytic activity determined by using an indirect amidolytic assay with Glu-plasminogen and a chromogenic plasmin substrate. The results suggest that the various forms of rt-PA differ from one another with respect to the kinetics of their fibrin-dependent activation of plasminogen. Together, these data support the notion (Wittwer et al., 1989) that N-glycosylation influences the fibrin-dependent catalytic activity of t-PA and that t-PA when expressed in different cell lines may consist of kinetically and structurally distinct glycoforms."	1989	Sep-19	28	19	7670-9	2514793	0
604	"Parekh, RB"	Cell-type-specific and site-specific N-glycosylation of type I and type II human tissue plasminogen activator	Biochemistry	"Tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) is an important initiator of fibrinolysis. The t-PA polypeptide has four potential N-glycosylation sites of which three are occupied in type I (Asn-117, -184, and -448) and two in type II (Asn-117 and -448). In an effort to elucidate the factors controlling the expression of N-linked oligosaccharides on this polypeptide, we have used a combination of sequential exoglycosidase digestion, methylation analysis, and controlled acetolysis to determine the oligosaccharide structures at each of the N-glycosylation sites of type I and type II t-PA when isolated from a human colon fibroblast cell strain and from a Bowes melanoma cell line. Our results suggest the following: (i) type I and type II t-PA are N-glycosylated in an identical way at Asn-117 and Asn-448, when isolated from the same cell line; (ii) Asn-117 is predominantly associated with oligomannose-type structures in all cases; (iii) Asn-184 and Asn-448 are predominantly associated with complex-type structures when t-PA is isolated from fibroblast cells, but with both complex- and oligomannose-type structures when isolated from melanoma cells; (iv) fibroblast cell derived t-PA is associated with both neutral and sialylated oligosaccharides, while melanoma cell derived t-PA is also associated with sulfated oligosaccharides, which are located exclusively at Asn-448 of type II t-PA; (v) no complex-type structures occur in common between t-PA from the two cell lines. These results indicate that the t-PA glycoprotein is secreted by each cell line as a set of glycoforms, each glycoform being unique with respect to the nature and disposition of oligosaccharides on a common polypeptide. Further, the two cell lines express no glycoform in common, despite expressing the same t-PA polypeptide. The implications of these results for both the control of oligosaccharide processing in different cell lines and the genetic engineering of mammalian glycoproteins are discussed."	1989	Sep-19	28	19	7644-62	2514791	0
605	"Parekh, RB"	Glycosylation of interleukin-6 purified from normal human blood mononuclear cells	Eur J Biochem	"Interleukin 6 (IL-6) is a glycosylated cytokine which is important in exerting cell-specific growth-inducing, growth-inhibiting and differentiation-inducing effects. IL-6 produced in mammalian cell lines is heterogeneous, reflecting specific cell-type-dependent post-translational modifications. Native IL-6 was purified from human blood mononuclear cells and the oligosaccharides released, radiolabelled and sequenced by a combination of sequential exoglycosidase digestion using Bio-Gel P-4 high-resolution gel chromatography and acetolysis. N- and O-linked glycans were found. The N-linked glycans were sialylated di- and tri-antennary complex-type and oligomannose-type structures. However, the most predominant N-linked oligosaccharide was a small tetrasaccharide with the sequence Man alpha 6Man beta 4GlcNAc beta 4GlcNAc. This is the first report of this structure on a circulating glycoprotein. This structure has only previously been reported to be present on the syncytiotrophoblast of human placenta. The presence of the oligomannose structures and the mannose-terminating tetrasaccharide on IL-6 may be important in maintaining a high local concentration of the cytokine while limiting its systemic serum level via interaction with soluble mannose-binding serum lectins."	1992	Jan-15	203	01-Feb	135-41	1730219	0
606	"Parham, P"	The occurrence of disulphide bonds in purified clathrin light chains	Biochem J	"Three forms of clathrin light chain contain two cysteine residues. These are the predominant brain-specific forms of LCa and LCb and the non-brain form of LCb. After purification in the absence of thiols they contain intramolecular disulphide bonds. The reduced and the oxidized forms show differences in electrophoretic mobility, explaining the variable and heterogeneous patterns observed on electrophoresis. Accessibility of the thiol groups in the free light chains is greater than when they are associated with the heavy chain. In contrast the cysteine residues of the clathrin heavy chain are completely inaccessible in the absence of denaturants and are not found in disulphide bonds. The antigenic properties of the oxidized and the reduced forms of the clathrin light chains are similar, as is their capacity to bind to the clathrin heavy chain. After isolation in the presence of 10 mM-iodoacetamide, the light-chain cysteine residues are fully alkylated. The results are consistent with the reduced form being the native state and the light-chain disulphide bonds an artifact of isolation."	1989	Feb-01	257	3	775-81	2930486	0
607	"Parise, ER"	Effects of iron loading and bacillus Calmette-Guerin on a glycoprotein recognition system on rat hepatic sinusoidal cells	J Lab Clin Med	"Experiments were performed to determine the effects of agents that modify Kupffer cells on the mannose-N-acetylglucosamine-glycoprotein receptor on hepatic sinusoidal cells. Cells were prepared by collagenase liver perfusion, centrifugation on Percoll gradients, and centrifugal elutriation. The uptake of 125I-labeled agalacto-orosomucoid (125I-AGOR), an N-acetylglucosamine-terminated glycoprotein, was greatest (53% of total uptake) by elutriator fractions containing equal proportions of endothelial and Kupffer cells (""mixed cell"" fraction). Uptake was specific and time and concentration dependent. The apparent Km (0.4 mumol/L) and the patterns of inhibition by monosaccharides were similar in all the elutriator fractions, suggesting that only one class of receptor was present. The highest apparent maximal velocity (18 pmol/hr/5 X 10(6) cells) was found in the mixed cell fraction, indicating this fraction contained the highest proportion of receptor-bearing cells. Latex (0.8 micron) and bacillus Calmette-Guerin pretreatments did not influence the hepatic uptake of the glycoprotein in vivo. Iron sorbitol significantly reduced hepatic glycoprotein uptake and caused a twofold increase in the proportion of the ligand remaining in the circulation. Uptake of 125I-agalacto-orosomucoid by cells from latex-treated rats was similar to controls, but uptake by bacillus Calmette-Guerin-treated rat cells was only 25% of control uptake. This was related to a marked increase in sinusoidal cell number caused by bacillus Calmette-Guerin. In contrast, iron sorbitol caused a selective suppression of 125I-agalacto-orosomucoid uptake (10% of control uptake) by cells in the mixed cell fraction. This study showed that maximal uptake of 125I-agalacto-orosomucoid was by elutriator fractions containing equal proportions of endothelial and Kupffer cells and that iron sorbitol suppressed ligand uptake by these cells, possibly by influencing the mannose-N-acetylglucosamine receptor on Kupffer cells."	1984	Dec	104	6	908-20	6502002	0
608	"Parker, GF"	Detection of the lipid-linked precursor oligosaccharide of N-linked protein glycosylation in Drosophila melanogaster	FEBS Lett	"The presence of a glycan of the same molecular size as the lipid linked precursor oligosaccharide (Glc3Man9GlcNAc2) of the N-linked protein glycosylation pathway in mammalian cells has been detected in a glycolipid fraction of cultured Drosophila melanogaster cells. Oligosaccharide sequencing studies were consistent with the existence of a glucosylated high mannose containing structure, which may be the common precursor for N-linked protein glycosylation in insect cells."	1991	Sep-23	290	01-Feb	58-60	1915893	0
609	"Pate, EJ"	Lack of viral latency of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I	N Engl J Med		1991	Jul-25	325	4	284	2057031	0
610	"Paton, WD and Wing, DR"	Effects of halothane on the incorporation of [14C]-serine into phospholipid in the guinea-pig ileum	Br J Pharmacol	"1 The effects of halothane on the incorporation of L-[3-14C]-serine into phospholipid were studied in the resting, innervated longitudinal muscle preparation of the guinea-pig ileum. 2 The anaesthetic, at clinical concentrations, caused a dose-dependent, partial inhibition of incorporation. The effect was rapid and reversible, and did not show characteristics of competitive inhibition. 3 The incorporation was reduced by a decrease in the Ca2+ concentration of the Krebs incubation buffer. Part of the activity persisted in the absence of added Ca2+ and this was most susceptible to inhibition by halothane. Sensitivity to external Ca2+ was not influenced at the halothane concentrations studied. 4 Evidence in support of the 14C-incorporation being due to L-[3-14C]-serine-phospholipid base-exchange activity included: (a) the rapid appearance of radioactivity in phosphatidylserine; (b) the kinetics of this incorporation in relation to that in phosphatidylethanolamine; (c) its dependence on Ca2+, and (d) its sensitivity to 2,4-dinitrophenol and its sensitivity to temperature. 5 It is concluded that this preparation makes it possible for a membrane-bound lipid-dependent activity (L-serine-phospholipid base-exchange) to be studied in conditions of cellular integrity under which the normal functional effects of lipophilic drugs can be simultaneously tested. 6 A rapid gas-chromatographic assay for halothane from an aqueous medium is also described."	1981	Mar	72	3	393-400	6789918	0
611	"Pavlovic, D"	The hepatitis C virus p7 protein forms an ion channel that is inhibited by long-alkyl-chain iminosugar derivatives	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"We show that hepatitis C virus (HCV) p7 protein forms ion channels in black lipid membranes. HCV p7 ion channels are inhibited by long-alkyl-chain iminosugar derivatives, which have antiviral activity against the HCV surrogate bovine viral diarrhea virus. HCV p7 presents a potential target for antiviral therapy."	2003	May-13	100	10	6104-8	12719519	0
612	"Pavlovic, D"	Long alkylchain iminosugars block the HCV p7 ion channel	Adv Exp Med Biol		2005		564		03-Apr	16400798	0
613	"Pelled, D"	Inhibition of calcium uptake via the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase in a mouse model of Sandhoff disease and prevention by treatment with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin	J Biol Chem	"Gangliosides are found at high levels in neuronal tissues where they play a variety of important functions. In the gangliosidoses, gangliosides accumulate because of defective activity of the lysosomal proteins responsible for their degradation, usually resulting in a rapidly progressive neurodegenerative disease. However, the molecular mechanism(s) leading from ganglioside accumulation to neurodegeneration is not known. We now examine the effect of ganglioside GM2 accumulation in a mouse model of Sandhoff disease (one of the GM2 gangliosidoses), the Hexb-/- mouse. Microsomes from Hexb-/- mouse brain showed a significant reduction in the rate of Ca2+-uptake via the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA), which was prevented by feeding Hexb-/- mice with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), an inhibitor of glycolipid synthesis that reduces GM2 storage. Changes in SERCA activity were not due to transcriptional regulation but rather because of a decrease in Vmax. Moreover, exogenously added GM2 had a similar effect on SERCA activity. The functional significance of these findings was established by the enhanced sensitivity of neurons cultured from embryonic Hexb-/- mice to cell death induced by thapsigargin, a specific SERCA inhibitor, and by the enhanced sensitivity of Hexb-/- microsomes to calcium-induced calcium release. This study suggests a mechanistic link among GM2 accumulation, reduced SERCA activity, and neuronal cell death, which may be of significance for delineating the neuropathophysiology of Sandhoff disease."	2003	Aug-08	278	32	29496-501	12756243	0
614	"Peracaula, R"	Glycosylation of human pancreatic ribonuclease: differences between normal and tumor states	Glycobiology	"Characterization of the N-glycans from human pancreatic ribonuclease (RNase 1) isolated from healthy pancreas and from pancreatic adenocarcinoma tumor cells (Capan-1 and MDAPanc-3) revealed completely different glycosylation patterns. RNase 1 from healthy cells contained neutral complex biantennary structures, with smaller amounts of tri- and tetraantennary compounds, and glycans with poly-N-acetyllactosamine extensions, all extensively fucosylated. In contrast, RNase 1 glycans from tumor cells (Capan-1) were fucosylated hybrid and complex biantennary glycans with GalNAc-GlcNAc antennae. RNase 1 glycans from Capan-1 and MDAPanc-3 cells also contained sialylated structures completely absent in the healthy pancreas. Some of these features provide distinct epitopes that were clearly detected using monoclonal antibodies against carbohydrate antigens. Thus monoclonal antibodies to Lewis(y) reacted only with normal pancreatic RNase 1, whereas, in contrast, monoclonal antibodies to sialyl-Lewis(x) and sialyl-Lewis(a) reacted only with RNase 1 secreted from the tumor cells. These glycosylation changes in a tumor-secreted protein, which reflect fundamental changes in the enzymes involved in the glycosylation pathway, open up the possibility of using serum RNase 1 as a tumor marker of pancreatic adenocarcinoma."	2003	Apr	13	4	227-44	12626415	495
615	"Peracaula, R"	Altered glycosylation pattern allows the distinction between prostate-specific antigen (PSA) from normal and tumor origins	Glycobiology	"Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a glycoprotein secreted by prostate epithelial cells. PSA is currently used as a marker of prostate carcinoma because high levels of PSA are indicative of a tumor situation. However, PSA tests still suffer from a lack of specificity to distinguish between benign prostate hyperplasia and prostate cancer. To determine whether PSA glycosylation could provide a means of differentiating between PSA from normal and tumor origins, N-glycan characterization of PSA from seminal fluid and prostate cancer cells (LNCaP cell line) by sequencing analysis and mass spectrometry was carried out. Glycans from normal PSA (that correspond to low and high pI PSA fractions) were sialylated biantennary complex structures, half of them being disialylated in the low pI PSA fraction and mostly monosialylated in the high pI PSA. PSA from LNCaP cells was purified to homogeneity, and its glycan analysis showed a significantly different pattern, especially in the outer ends of the biantennary complex structures. In contrast to normal PSA glycans, which were sialylated, LNCaP PSA oligosaccharides were all neutral and contained a higher fucose content. In 10-15% of the structures fucose was linked alpha1-2 to galactose, forming the H2 epitope absent in normal PSA. GalNAc was increased in LNCaP glycans to 65%, whereas in normal PSA it was only present in 25% of the structures. These carbohydrate differences allow a distinction to be made between PSA from normal and tumor origins and suggest a valuable biochemical tool for diagnosis and follow-up purposes."	2003	Jun	13	6	457-70	12626390	496
616	"Peretz, D"	Antibodies inhibit prion propagation and clear cell cultures of prion infectivity	Nature	"Prions are the transmissible pathogenic agents responsible for diseases such as scrapie and bovine spongiform encephalopathy. In the favoured model of prion replication, direct interaction between the pathogenic prion protein (PrPSc) template and endogenous cellular prion protein (PrPC) is proposed to drive the formation of nascent infectious prions. Reagents specifically binding either prion-protein conformer may interrupt prion production by inhibiting this interaction. We examined the ability of several recombinant antibody antigen-binding fragments (Fabs) to inhibit prion propagation in cultured mouse neuroblastoma cells (ScN2a) infected with PrPSc. Here we show that antibodies binding cell-surface PrPC inhibit PrPSc formation in a dose-dependent manner. In cells treated with the most potent antibody, Fab D18, prion replication is abolished and pre-existing PrPSc is rapidly cleared, suggesting that this antibody may cure established infection. The potent activity of Fab D18 is associated with its ability to better recognize the total population of PrPC molecules on the cell surface, and with the location of its epitope on PrPC. Our observations support the use of antibodies in the prevention and treatment of prion diseases and identify a region of PrPC for drug targeting."	2001	Aug-16	412	6848	739-43	11507642	0
617	"Perez, CA"	Management of locally advanced carcinoma of the breast. II. Inflammatory carcinoma	Cancer	"BACKGROUND. Inflammatory carcinoma of the breast has been associated with a poor prognosis. Several therapeutic approaches have been under investigation in an effort to improve outcome. METHODS. This is a retrospective analysis of 179 patients with histologically confirmed inflammatory carcinoma of the breast: 33 treated with irradiation alone, 35 with combined irradiation and chemotherapy, 25 with irradiation and surgery, and 86 with a combination of three modalities. RESULTS. The 5-year disease free survival (DFS) rates were 40% for patients treated with three modalities, 24% for those treated with irradiation and surgery, and 6% for those treated with irradiation alone or in combination with chemotherapy without a surgical procedure. The 10-year DFS rates were 35%, 24%, and 0%, respectively. Cause specific survival (CSS) curves closely follow the same trends. A clearly superior locoregional tumor control was observed in patients who underwent a surgical procedure: 79% with three modalities, 76% with irradiation and surgery, and only 30% with irradiation alone or in combination with chemotherapy. Distant metastasis occurred in 57% of the group treated with triple-modality therapy, 60% of those treated with irradiation plus surgery, and 85% of the patients treated with irradiation alone or in combination with chemotherapy. There was no significant correlation between the type of mastectomy or doses of irradiation and locoregional tumor control or survival. The significant morbidity of the trimodal therapy (10%), although somewhat higher than that of other modalities (3.2%), was acceptable. CONCLUSIONS. The addition of mastectomy to irradiation significantly improved locoregional tumor control, DFS, and CSS; differences were statistically significant. The combination of chemotherapy, surgery, and irradiation had a significant impact on locoregional tumor control and incidence of distant metastases compared with surgery plus irradiation, and a lesser impact, although still statistically significant, on DFS and CSS. Further clinical trials are needed to optimize the management of patients with inflammatory breast cancer."	1994	Jul-01	74	1 Suppl	466-76	8004622	0
618	"Perez, CA"	Management of locally advanced carcinoma of the breast. I. Noninflammatory	Cancer	"BACKGROUND. The treatment of patients with locally advanced noninflammatory breast cancer has evolved substantially over the past 30 years. From 1968 to 1989, 281 women were treated at Mallinckrodt Radiation Oncology Center with four different treatment methods. Median follow-up was 6.2 years (range 3-22 years); no patient was lost to follow-up. METHODS. Retrospective review of records and analysis of data on a computer file were carried out. Thirty-five patients were treated with irradiation alone, 33 with irradiation and adjuvant chemotherapy, 81 with mastectomy and irradiation, and 132 with mastectomy, irradiation, and chemotherapy (triple-modality). RESULTS. Actuarial 5- and 10-year disease free survival (DFS) rates were 45% and 36%, respectively, with triple-modality therapy, 31% and 10% with irradiation and chemotherapy, 32% and 19% with irradiation and mastectomy, and 19% and 11% with irradiation alone. Cause specific survival (CSS) paralleled DFS in the four groups. Locoregional tumor control at 5 years was 91% for irradiation, mastectomy, and chemotherapy, 80% for irradiation and mastectomy, 54% for irradiation and chemotherapy, and 31% for irradiation alone. Systemic therapy and/or irradiation given before mastectomy yielded better locoregional tumor control, DFS, and CSS (not statistically significant). No difference in results was noted with radical, modified radical, or total mastectomy. In the triple-modality group, no chest wall failures occurred with chest wall doses greater than 5040 cGy. Grade 2 or higher treatment sequelae were noted in 10-42% of patients, depending on treatment modality. CONCLUSIONS. Triple-modality therapy yielded improved locoregional tumor control, DFS, and CSS compared with other modalities. Patients treated with surgery had better locoregional tumor control than those who received irradiation alone or in combination with chemotherapy, but the impact on DFS and CSS was less impressive. Additional clinical trials are needed to define further the role and optimal use of the various therapeutic modalities in the management of locally advanced breast cancer."	1994	Jul-01	74	1 Suppl	453-65	8004621	0
619	"Perez, CA"	Brachytherapy or electron beam boost in conservation therapy of carcinoma of the breast: a nonrandomized comparison	Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys	"PURPOSE: The results of breast-conservation therapy using breast irradiation and a boost to the tumor excision site with either electron beam or interstitial 192Ir implant are reviewed. METHODS AND MATERIALS: A total of 701 patients with histologically confirmed Stage T1 and T2 carcinoma of the breast were treated with wide local tumor excision or quadrantectomy and breast irradiation. The breast was treated with tangential fields using 4 or 6 MV photons to deliver 48 to 50 Gy in 1.8 to 2 Gy daily dose, in five weekly fractions. In 80 patients the regional lymphatics were irradiated. In 342 patients with Stage T1 and 107 with Stage T2 tumors, boost to the primary tumor excision site was delivered with 9 MeV and, more frequently, with 12 MeV electrons. In 91 patients with Stage T1 and 38 patients with Stage T2 tumors an interstitial 192Ir implant was performed. Tumor control, disease-free survival, cosmesis, and morbidity of therapy are reviewed. Minimum follow-up is 4 years (median 5.6 years; maximum, 24 years). RESULTS: The overall local tumor recurrence rates were 5% in the T1 and 11% in the T2 tumor groups. There was no significant difference in the breast relapse rate in patients treated with either electron beam or interstitial 192Ir boost. Regional lymph node recurrences were 1% in patients with T1 and 5% with T2 tumors. Distant metastases were recorded in 5% of the T1 and 23% of the T2 groups. The 10-year actuarial disease-free survival rates were 87% for patients with T1 and 75% with T2 tumors. Disease-free survival was exactly the same in patients receiving either electron beam or interstitial 192Ir boost. Cosmesis was rated as excellent/good in 84% of patients with T1 tumors treated with electron beam and 81% of patients treated with interstitial implant, and 74 and 79% respectively, in patients with T2 tumors. CONCLUSIONS: Breast-conservation therapy is an effective treatment for patients with T1 and T2 carcinoma of the breast. There is no difference in local tumor control, disease-free survival, cosmesis, or morbidity in patients treated with either electron beam or interstitial 192Ir implant boost. Clinical trials in progress will further elucidate this controversial subject."	1996	Mar-15	34	5	995-1007	8600112	0
620	"Perkins, SJ"	"Conformational changes, dynamics and assignments in 1H NMR studies of proteins using ring current calculations. Hen egg white lysozyme"	FEBS Lett		1977	Oct-01	82	1	17-22	562276	0
621	"Perkins, SJ"	Application of ring-current theory based on the Johnson-Bovey equation to the aromatic amino acids	Biochem J		1977	Aug-01	165	2	223-5	921745	0
622	"Perkins, SJ and Dwek, RA"	Comparisons of ring-current shifts calculated from the crystal structure of egg white lysozyme of hen with the proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of lysozyme in solution	Biochemistry	"Detailed ring-current calculations with some consideration for protein flexibility are described for egg white lysozyme of hen. These are based on 15 sets of crystal coordinates of lysozyme and over 60 assigned resonances in the 1H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrum of lysozyme. These analyses evaluate two basic assumptions: that the refined protein crystal structure is similar to the protein structure in solution and that the present ring-current theories in application to the aromatic amino acids offer a good description of the observed shifts in the protein NMR spectrum. The dipolar, Johnson-Bovey, and Haigh-Mallion equations are tested. The conventional ring-current intensity factors for the tyrosine and phenylalanine rings of 0.94 and 1.00 are found to be satisfactory, but those for the tryptophan ring need to be increased. With this, ring-current effects offer good explanations for the chemical shifts of the aliphatic and aromatic protons in lysozyme for which the NMR signals have to date been resolved and assigned. Ring-current effects do not, however, explain directly the shifts of the six tryptophan N-H protons nor those of the alpha protons. Applications of these calculations are described to compare the tetragonal and triclinic forms of native lysozyme, to propose several assignments of 1H NMR signals in the spectrum of lysozyme, and to analyze some of the conformational changes which occur on the binding of Gd(III) and GlcNAc sugars to lysozyme. The uses and limitations of the calculations for protein NMR are briefly discussed."	1980	Jan-22	19	2	245-58	7352983	0
623	"Perkins, SJ"	The simultaneous binding of lanthanide and N-acetylglucosamine inhibitors to hen egg-white lysozyme in solution by 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance	Biochem J	"Lanthanide ions and the N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) sugars are able to bind simultaneously to hen egg-white lysozyme (EC 3.2.1.17). The present study characterizes the properties of the ternary complexes with lysozyme, which involve up to seven paramagnetic lanthanides and two diamagnetic lanthanides, together with alpha GlcNAc, beta GlcNAc, alpha MeGlcNAc and beta MeGlcNAc. pH titrations and binding titrations of the GlcNAc sugars with lysozyme-La(III) complexes show that the GlcNAc sugars bind to at least two independent sites and that one of them competes with La(III) for binding to lysozyme. Given the known binding site of lanthanides at Asp-52 and Glu-35, the competitive binding site of GlcNAc is identified as subsite E. A simple analysis of the paramagnetic-lanthanide-induced shifts shows that the GlcNAc sugar binds in subsite C, in accordance with crystallographic results [Perkins, Johnson, Machin & Phillips (1979) Biochem. J. 181, 21-36]. This finding was refined by several computer analyses of the lanthanide-induced shifts of 17 proton and carbon resonances of beta MeGlcNAc. Good fits were obtained for all the signals, except for two that were affected by exchange broadening phenomena. No distinction could be made between a fit for a two-position model of Ln(III) binding with axial symmetry to lysozyme, according to the crystallographic result, or a one-position model with axial symmetry where the Ln(III) is positioned mid-way between Asp-52 and Glu-35. Although this work establishes the feasibility of lanthanide shift reagents for study of protein-ligand complexes, further work is required to establish the manner in which lanthanides bind to lysozyme in solution."	1981	Feb-01	193	2	573-88	7305947	0
624	"Perkins, SJ"	The binding of monosaccharide inhibitors to hen egg-white lysozyme by proton magnetic resonance at 270 MHz and analysis by ring-current calculations	Biochem J	"Studies of the binding of the four sugars alpha- and beta-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) and its alpha- and beta-methyl glycosides to hen egg-white lysozyme (EC 3.2.1.17) by means of high-resolution 1H n.m.r. at 270 MHz are reported. The details of the binding analyses are described in an Appendix. The results show that the sugars bind independently to more than one site in lysozyme. The apparent fully bound chemical shifts to the inhibitor proton signals show that, although the major binding modes are generally similar for the four sugars, the binding of alpha GlcNAc is distinct from that of alpha MeGlcNAc and beta MeClcNAc. The binding of beta GlcNAc is intermediate in character between these two modes. The observed shift changes of the inhibitor signals are correlated with the crystal structures of lysozyme-inhibitor complexes by the use of Johnson-Bovey ring-current calculations. Together with consideration of the chemical-shift anisotropy of the GlcNAc amide group, these suggest that GlcNAc-binding sites in solution are in subsites C and E. The calculations show also that the indole rings of Trp-62 and Trp-63 rotate towards subsite C on the binding of GlcNAc, whereas Trp-108 moves away slightly. These findings indicate a difference between the solution and tetragonal crystal forms of lysozyme-GlcNAc and lysozymes-beta MeGlcNAc complexes. In the crystal structure, binding of acetamido monosaccharides is only observed in subsite C, and binding in subsite E is prevented by crystal packing."	1981	Feb-01	193	2	553-72	7305946	0
625	"Perkins, SJ"	Neutron scattering studies of subcomponent C1q of first component C1 of human complement and its association with subunit C1r2C1s2 within C1	J Mol Biol	"Neutron scattering studies are reported on subcomponent C1q of component C1 of human complement, and on C1, the complex of C1q with subunit C1r2C1s2. For C1q, the molecular weight was determined as 460,000. The radius of gyration at infinite contrast RC is 12.8 nm. The RC values for the proteolytically cleaved forms of C1q, namely the heads and the stalks, are 1.5 to 2 nm and 11 nm, respectively, and thus the axis-to-arm angle of C1q is estimated at 45 degrees. Neutron data for subunit C1r2C1s2 are published elsewhere. The neutron data on C1 lead to an RC value of 12.6 nm for proenzymic C1 and a molecular weight of 820,000. The wide-angle scattering curve of C1q exhibits a minimum at Q = 0.28 nm-1 and a maximum at 0.39 nm-1; on the addition of C1r2C1s2, this minimum disappears. The neutron data on C1 indicate that C1q and C1r2C1s2 have complexed with a large conformational change in one or both parts. No conformational changes can be detected on the activation of C1 by this method."	1984	Nov-05	179	3	547-57	6096553	0
626	"Perkins, SJ"	The Thy-1 glycoprotein: a three-dimensional model	Trends Biochem Sci		1988	Aug	13	8	302-3	2908695	0
627	"Perkins, SJ"	Two-domain structure of the native and reactive centre cleaved forms of C1 inhibitor of human complement by neutron scattering	J Mol Biol	"The C1 inhibitor component of human complement is a member of the serpin superfamily, and controls C1 activation. Carbohydrate analyses showed that there are seven O-linked oligosaccharides in C1 inhibitor. Together with six N-linked complex-type oligosaccharides, the carbohydrate content is therefore 26% by weight and the molecular weight (Mr) is calculated as 71,100. Neutron scattering gives an Mr of 76,000 (+/- 4000) and a matchpoint of 41.8 to 42.3% 2H2O, in agreement with this carbohydrate and amino acid composition. Guinier plots to determine the radius of gyration RG were biphasic. Neutron contrast variation of C1 inhibitor in H2O-2H2O mixtures gave an overall radius of gyration RG at infinite contrast of 4.85 nm, from analyses at low Q, and a cross-sectional RG of 1.43 nm. The reactive centre cleaved form of C1 inhibitor has the same Mr and structure as the native molecule. The length of C1 inhibitor, 16 to 19 nm, is far greater than that of the putative serpin domain. This is attributed to an elongated structure for the carbohydrate-rich 113-residue N-terminal domain. The radial inhomogeneity of scattering density, alpha, is large at 59 x 10(-5) from the RG data and 28 x 10(-5) from the cross-sectional analysis, and this is accounted for by the high oligosaccharide content of C1 inhibitor. The scattering data were modelled using small spheres. A two-domain structure of length 18 nm based on two distinct scattering densities accounted for all the contrast variation data. One domain is based on the crystal structure of alpha 1 antitrypsin (7 nm x 3 nm x 3 nm). The other corresponds to an extended heavily glycosylated N-terminal domain of length 15 nm, whose long axis is close to the longest axis of the serpin domain. Calculation of the sedimentation coefficient s0(20),w for C1 inhibitor using the hydrodynamic sphere approach showed that a two-domain head-and-tail structure with an Mr of 71,000 and longest axis of 16 to 19 nm successfully reproduced the s0(20),w of 3.7 S. Possible roles of the N-terminal domain in the function of C1 inhibitor are discussed."	1990	Aug-05	214	3	751-63	2388266	0
628	"Petrescu, AJ"	The solution NMR structure of glucosylated N-glycans involved in the early stages of glycoprotein biosynthesis and folding	Embo J	"Glucosylated oligomannose N-linked oligosaccharides (Glc(x)Man9GlcNAc2 where x = 1-3) are not normally found on mature glycoproteins but are involved in the early stages of glycoprotein biosynthesis and folding as (i) recognition elements during protein N-glycosylation and chaperone recognition and (ii) substrates in the initial steps of N-glycan processing. By inhibiting the first steps of glycan processing in CHO cells using the alpha-glucosidase inhibitor N-butyl-deoxynojirimycin, we have produced sufficient Glc3Man7GlcNAc2 for structural analysis by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Our results show the glucosyl cap to have a single, well-defined conformation independent of the rest of the saccharide. Comparison with the conformation of Man9GlcNAc2, previously determined by NMR and molecular dynamics, shows the mannose residues to be largely unaffected by the presence of the glucosyl cap. Sequential enzymatic cleavage of the glucose residues does not affect the conformation of the remaining saccharide. Modelling of the Glc3Man9GlcNAc2, Glc2Man9GlcNAc2 and Glc1Man9GlcNAc2 conformations shows the glucose residues to be fully accessible for recognition. A more detailed analysis of the conformations allows potential recognition epitopes on the glycans to be identified and can form the basis for understanding the specificity of the glucosidases and chaperones (such as calnexin) that recognize these glycans, with implications for their mechanisms of action."	1997	Jul-16	16	14	4302-10	9250674	0
629	"Petrescu, SM"	Inhibition of N-glycan processing in B16 melanoma cells results in inactivation of tyrosinase but does not prevent its transport to the melanosome	J Biol Chem	"Tyrosinase is the key enzyme in melanin biosynthesis, catalyzing multiple steps in this pathway. The mature glycoprotein is transported from the Golgi to the melanosome where melanin biosynthesis occurs. In this study, we have investigated the effects of inhibitors of N-glycan processing on the synthesis, transport, and catalytic activity of tyrosinase. When B16 mouse melanoma cells were cultured in the presence of N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, an inhibitor of the endoplasmic reticulum-processing enzymes alpha-glucosidases I and II, the enzyme was synthesized and transported to the melanosome but almost completely lacked catalytic activity. The cells contained only 2% of the melanin found in untreated cells. Structural analysis of the N-glycans from N-butyldeoxynojirimycin-treated B16 cells demonstrated that three oligosaccharide structures (Glc3Man7-9) predominated. Removal of the glucose residues with alpha-glucosidases I and II failed to restore enzymatic activity, suggesting that the glucosylated N-glycans do not sterically interfere with the enzyme's active sites. The mannosidase inhibitor deoxymannojirimycin had no effect on catalytic activity suggesting that the retention of glucosylated N-glycans results in the inactivation of this enzyme. The retention of glucosylated N-glycans does not therefore result in misfolding and degradation of the glycoprotein, as the enzyme is transported to the melanosome, but may cause conformational changes in its catalytic domains."	1997	Jun-20	272	25	15796-803	9188477	0
630	"Petrescu, AJ"	A statistical analysis of N- and O-glycan linkage conformations from crystallographic data	Glycobiology	"We have generated a database of 639 glycosidic linkage structures by an exhaustive survey of the available crystallographic data for isolated oligosaccharides, glycoproteins, and glycan-binding proteins. For isolated oligosaccharides there is relatively little crystallographic data available. A much larger number of glycoprotein and glycan-binding protein structures have now been solved in which two or more linked monosaccharides can be resolved. In the majority of these cases, only a few residues can be seen. Using the 639 glycosidic linkage structures, we have identified one or more distinct conformers for all the linkages. The O5-C1-O-C(x)' torsion angles for all these distinct conformers appear to be determined chiefly by the exo-anomeric effect. The Manalpha1-6Man linkage appears to be less restrained than the others, showing a wide degree of dispersion outside the ranges of the defined conformers. The identification of distinct conformers for glyco-sidic linkages allows ""average"" glycan structures to be modeled and also allows the easy identification of distorted glycosidic linkages. Such an analysis shows that the interactions between IgG Fc and its own N-linked glycan result in severe distortion of the terminal Galbeta1-4GlcNAc linkage only, indicating the strong interactions that must be present between the Gal residue and the protein surface. The applicability of this crystallographic based analysis to glycan structures in solution is discussed. This database of linkagestructures should be a very useful reference tool in three-dimensional structure determinations."	1999	Apr	9	4	343-52	10089208	0
631	"Petrescu, SM"	Tyrosinase and glycoprotein folding: roles of chaperones that recognize glycans	Biochemistry		2000	May-09	39	18	5229-37	10819991	0
632	"Petrescu, SM"	The glycosylation of tyrosinase in melanoma cells and the effect on antigen presentation	Adv Exp Med Biol		2003		535		257-69	14714901	0
633	"Petrescu, AJ"	"Statistical analysis of the protein environment of N-glycosylation sites: implications for occupancy, structure, and folding"	Glycobiology	"We recently reported statistical analysis of structural data on glycosidic linkages. Here we extend this analysis to the glycan-protein linkage, and the peptide primary, secondary, and tertiary structures around N-glycosylation sites. We surveyed 506 glycoproteins in the Protein Data Bank crystallographic database, giving 2592 glycosylation sequons (1683 occupied) and generated a database of 626 nonredundant sequons with 386 occupied. Deviations in the expected amino acid composition were seen around occupied asparagines, particularly an increased occurrence of aromatic residues before the asparagine and threonine at position +2. Glycosylation alters the asparagine side chain torsion angle distribution and reduces its flexibility. There is an elevated probability of finding glycosylation sites in which secondary structure changes. An 11-class taxonomy was developed to describe protein surface geometry around glycosylation sites. Thirty-three percent of the occupied sites are on exposed convex surfaces, 10% in deep recesses and 20% on the edge of grooves with the glycan filling the cleft. A surprisingly large number of glycosylated asparagine residues have a low accessibility. The incidence of aromatic amino acids brought into close contact with the glycan by the folding process is higher than their normal levels on the surface or in the protein core. These data have significant implications for control of sequon occupancy and evolutionary selection of glycosylation sites and are discussed in relation to mechanisms of protein fold stabilization and regional quality control of protein folding. Hydrophobic protein-glycan interactions and the low accessibility of glycosylation sites in folded proteins are common features and may be critical in mediating these functions."	2004	Feb	14	2	103-14	14514716	0
634	"Platt, FM"	Monoclonal antibodies specific for novel murine cell surface markers define subpopulations of germinal center cells	Cell Immunol	"A panel of mAbs has been generated which selectively, but not exclusively, recognizes populations of cells within germinal centers of immunized mice. All four mAbs stain B cell populations as defined by flow cytometry. The mAbs FH9.5 and C3.5 also stain T cell subsets (CD4+ and CD8+, respectively). Following density gradient centrifugation of spleen cells from immunized mice the majority of FH9.5+ and C3.5+ B cells are found in the low density, activated fractions. The cells bearing the epitope(s) recognized by the C6C3 and the A6A2 mAbs are less frequent, and from flow cytometric analysis the cells stained with these mAbs are B cells and myeloid cells. The surface markers defined by the four mAbs are not induced following mitogen stimulation of small resting B cells suggesting that these molecules are not general activation markers. Cell lines from a variety of hematopoietic lineages expressing the four markers have been identified. The cell surface molecule immunoprecipitated by the FH9.5 mAb is a polypeptide of 23-28 kDa. The C3.5 antigen is an 85- to 95-kDa protein. These mAbs will be useful in elucidating the complex events involved in B cell differentiation and maturation which occur within germinal centers."	1992	Sep	143	2	449-66	1511484	0
635	"Platt, FM"	Modulation of cell-surface transferrin receptor by the imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin	Eur J Biochem	"The imino sugar, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, is an inhibitor of the glycoprotein-processing enzyme glucosidase I and exhibits anti-(human immunodeficiency virus) activity in vitro. We have investigated the effect(s) of this compound on cell-surface glycoproteins by flow cytometry. We observed selective modulation of the transferrin receptor in response to treatment with 0.5 mM N-butyldeoxynojirimycin resulting in reduced cell-surface transferrin-receptor expression. The receptor modulation was dose dependent, resulted in reduced 59Fe uptake by treated cells and was fully reversible within 24 h of culture in the absence of the compound. Pulse/chase analysis in conjunction with endoglycosidase-H digestion demonstrated that transferrin-receptor glycosylation was altered following N-butyldeoxynojirimycin treatment, which is compatible with glucosidase inhibition. In addition, modulation of transferrin receptor in response to N-butyldeoxynojirimycin was not confined to a single cell line, but was also observed with certain human lymphoid and myeloid cell lines. Mechanism(s) of action of the imino sugar resulting in reduced cell-surface transferrin-receptor expression are discussed."	1992	Aug-15	208	1	187-93	1387360	0
636	"Platt, FM"	N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin inhibits glycolipid biosynthesis but does not affect N-linked oligosaccharide processing	J Biol Chem	"We have previously reported that the imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) inhibits glycolipid biosynthesis, in addition to its known activity as an inhibitor of the N-linked oligosaccharide processing enzyme alpha-glucosidase I. In an attempt to dissociate these two activities and identify an inhibitor which was more selective for the glycolipid biosynthetic pathway, several imino sugars have been N-alkylated and tested for inhibitory activity. The galactose analogue N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin (NB-DGJ) was found to be a potent inhibitor of glycolipid biosynthesis but in contrast to NB-DNJ had no effect on the maturation of N-linked oligosaccharides or on lysosomal glucocerebrosidase. The effect of increasing N-alkyl chain length on glycolipid inhibition was investigated. Nonalkylated DGJ, the N-methyl and N-ethyl derivatives, were noninhibitory. However, N-propylation resulted in partial inhibition while the N-butyl and N-hexyl derivatives resulted in maximal inhibition. Increasing alkyl chain length also resulted in increased potency of glucosyltransferase inhibition. In an in vitro Gaucher's disease model NB-DGJ was as effective as NB-DNJ in preventing glycolipid storage and may represent a more selective potential therapeutic agent than NB-DNJ for the management of this and other glycosphingolipidoses."	1994	Oct-28	269	43	27108-14	7929454	0
637	"Platt, FM"	N-butyldeoxynojirimycin is a novel inhibitor of glycolipid biosynthesis	J Biol Chem	"The imino sugar deoxynojirimycin and its alkylated derivatives are inhibitors of the N-linked oligosaccharide processing enzymes alpha-glucosidase I and II. These compounds are glucose analogues and have the potential to inhibit both glucosidases and glucosyltransferases. However, to date there has been no report of deoxynojirimycin or similar analogues inhibiting a mammalian glucosyltransferase. We have investigated the effects of deoxynojirimycin and its alkylated derivatives on the biosynthesis of glycolipids in HL-60 cells. We have found that the N-butyl and N-hexyl derivatives of deoxynojirimycin, but not deoxynojirimycin itself, are novel inhibitors of the glucosyltransferase-catalyzed biosynthesis of glucosylceramide. This results in the inhibition of biosynthesis of all glucosylceramide-based glycosphingolipids. We have investigated the ability of one of these compounds, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, to offset glucosylceramide accumulation in an in vitro Gaucher's disease model. This compound prevents lysosomal glycolipid storage and offers a novel therapeutic approach for the management of this and other glycolipid storage disorders."	1994	Mar-18	269	11	8362-5	8132559	0
638	"Platt, FM"	Extensive glycosphingolipid depletion in the liver and lymphoid organs of mice treated with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin	J Biol Chem	"The imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin is an inhibitor of the ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase that catalyzes the first step in glycosphingolipid biosynthesis. It results in extensive glycosphingolipid depletion in cells treated in vitro, without causing toxicity. However, we currently do not know the degree to which glycosphingolipids can be depleted in vivo in a mammalian species. We have therefore administered N-butyldeoxynojirimycin long term to young mice and have found that glycosphingolipid levels are reduced (50-70%) in all tissues examined, without resulting in any overt pathology. When the lymphoid tissues from these mice were examined, they were found to be 50% acellular relative to non-lymphoid tissues. These data implicate a role for glycosphingolipids in the biology of the immune system or indicate an additional as yet unknown activity of N-butyldeoxynojirimycin. Extensive glycosphingolipid depletion resulting from N-butyldeoxynojirimycin administration is therefore well tolerated in adult mice, and this compound may be in an invaluable tool for probing glycosphingolipid functions in vivo. In addition, this drug may be effective in clinical situations where glycosphingolipid depletion would be desirable, such as the in the treatment of the human glycosphingolipidoses."	1997	Aug-01	272	31	19365-72	9235935	0
639	"Platt, FM"	Prevention of lysosomal storage in Tay-Sachs mice treated with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin	Science	"The glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage diseases result from the inheritance of defects in the genes encoding the enzymes required for catabolism of GSLs within lysosomes. A strategy for the treatment of these diseases, based on an inhibitor of GSL biosynthesis N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, was evaluated in a mouse model of Tay-Sachs disease. When Tay-Sachs mice were treated with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, the accumulation of GM2 in the brain was prevented, with the number of storage neurons and the quantity of ganglioside stored per cell markedly reduced. Thus, limiting the biosynthesis of the substrate (GM2) for the defective enzyme (beta-hexosaminidase A) prevents GSL accumulation and the neuropathology associated with its lysosomal storage."	1997	Apr-18	276	5311	428-31	9103204	0
640	"Platt, FM and Butters, TD"	New therapeutic prospects for the glycosphingolipid lysosomal storage diseases	Biochem Pharmacol	"The glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage diseases result from mutations in the genes that encode the enzymes required for glycosphingolipid catabolism within lysosomes. They are relatively rare diseases, but are frequently severe in terms of their pathology. Many involve progressive neurodegeneration, and in the most severe forms result in death in early infancy. The therapeutic options for treating these diseases are limited, and for the majority of these disorders there are currently no therapies available. To date, most research has focused on correcting the genetic lesion by gene therapy or by augmenting the enzyme activity deficient in these patients by introducing fully functional enzyme. This can be achieved by bone marrow transplantation or intravenous infusion of purified or recombinant enzyme (enzyme replacement). Gene therapy and enzyme replacement therapy are disease specific, and pharmacological approaches for the treatment of these disorders have not been fully explored. In this commentary, the problems associated with disease therapy are discussed, and a pharmacological agent (N-butyldeoxynojirimycin) is presented for the potential generic treatment of this family of disorders. Successful prevention of glycosphingolipid storage in a mouse model of Tay-Sachs disease suggests that this strategy merits clinical evaluation."	1998	Aug-15	56	4	421-30	9763217	0
641	"Platt, FM and Butters, TD"	Substrate deprivation: a new therapeutic approach for the glycosphingolipid lysosomal storage diseases	Expert Rev Mol Med	"The glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage diseases are a family of human metabolic diseases that, in their severest forms, cause death in early infancy, as a result of progressive neurodegeneration. They are caused by mutations in the genes encoding the glycohydrolases or the activator proteins that catabolise GSLs within lysosomes. In these diseases the GSL substrate of the defective enzyme accumulates in the lysosome, where it is stored and leads to cellular dysfunction and disease. The therapeutic options for treating these diseases are relatively limited; in fact, there are currently no available therapies for most of these disorders. The problem is further compounded by difficulties in delivering therapeutic agents to the central nervous system, which is where the pathology is frequently manifested. To date, research effort has mainly focused on strategies for augmenting enzyme concentrations to compensate for the underlying defect. These strategies include bone-marrow transplantation, enzyme-replacement therapy and gene therapy. Our group has been exploring the alternative strategy of substrate deprivation. This approach aims to balance the rate of GSL synthesis with the impaired rate of GSL breakdown. Studies using an asymptomatic mouse model of Tay-Sachs disease have shown that substrate deprivation prevents GSL storage. In a severe neurodegenerative mouse model of Sandhoff disease, substrate deprivation delayed the onset of symptoms and disease progression, and significantly increased life expectancy. The implications of this research for human therapy have been discussed."	2000	Feb-01	2000		Jan-17	14585134	0
642	"Platt, FM"	Inhibition of substrate synthesis as a strategy for glycolipid lysosomal storage disease therapy	J Inherit Metab Dis	"The glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage diseases are caused by mutations in the genes encoding the glycohydrolases that catabolize GSLs within lysosomes. In these diseases the substrate for the defective enzyme accumulates in the lysosome and the stored GSL leads to cellular dysfunction and disease. The diseases frequently have a progressive neurodegenerative course. The therapeutic options for treating these diseases are relatively limited, and for the majority there are no effective therapies. The problem is further compounded by difficulties in delivering therapeutic agents to the brain. Most research effort to date has focused on strategies for augmenting enzyme levels to compensate for the underlying defect. These include bone marrow transplantation (BMT), enzyme replacement and gene therapy. An alternative strategy that we have been exploring is substrate deprivation. This approach aims to balance the rate of GSL synthesis with the impaired rate of GSL breakdown. The imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) inhibits the first step in GSL biosynthesis and has been used to evaluate this approach. Studies in an asymptomatic mouse model of Tay-Sachs disease have shown that substrate deprivation prevents GSL storage in the CNS. In a severe neurodegenerative mouse model of Sandhoff disease, substrate deprivation delayed the onset of symptoms and disease progression and significantly increased life expectancy. Combining NB-DNJ and BMT was found to be synergistic in the Sandhoff mouse model. A clinical trial in type I Gaucher disease has been undertaken and has shown beneficial effects. Efficacy was demonstrated on the basis of significant decreases in liver and spleen volumes, gradual but significant improvement in haematological parameters and disease activity markers, together with diminished GSL biosynthesis and storage as determined by independent biochemical assays. Further trials in type I Gaucher disease are in progress; studies are planned in patients with GSL storage in the CNS."	2001	Apr	24	2	275-90	11405346	0
643	"Platt, FM"	Substrate reduction therapy in mouse models of the glycosphingolipidoses	Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci	"Substrate reduction therapy uses small molecules to slow the rate of glycolipid biosynthesis. One of these drugs, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), shows efficacy in mouse models of Tay-Sachs, Sandhoff and Fabry diseases. This offers the prospect that NB-DNJ may be of therapeutic benefit, at least in the juvenile and adult onset variants of these disorders. The infantile onset variants will require an additional enzyme-augmenting modality if the pathology is to be significantly improved. A second drug, N-butyldeoxyglactonojirimycin, looks very promising for treating storage diseases with neurological involvement as high systemic dosing is achievable without any side-effects."	2003	May-29	358	1433	947-54	12803928	0
644	"Platt, FM"	New developments in treating glycosphingolipid storage diseases	Adv Exp Med Biol		2005		564		117-26	16400817	0
645	"Pleat, JM"	Identifying protein production in wound healing: current techniques	J Wound Care	Proteins regulate would healing. Knowledge of the proteins present in poorly healing wounds may reveal new targets for treatment. This article describes how proteomics can be used to help identify the proteins involved in would healing.	2002	Feb	11	2	63-6	11901742	0
646	"Popescu, CI"	Soluble tyrosinase is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation substrate retained in the ER by calreticulin and BiP/GRP78 and not calnexin	J Biol Chem	"Tyrosinase is a type I membrane protein regulating the pigmentation process in humans. Mutations of the human tyrosinase gene cause the tyrosinase negative type I oculocutaneous albinism (OCAI). Some OCAI mutations were shown to delete the transmembrane domain or to affect its hydrophobic properties, resulting in soluble tyrosinase mutants that are retained in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). To understand the specific mechanisms involved in the ER retention of soluble tyrosinase, we have constructed a tyrosinase mutant truncated at its C-terminal end and investigated its maturation process. The mutant is retained in the ER, and it is degraded through the proteasomal pathway. We determined that the mannose trimming is required for an efficient degradation process. Moreover, this soluble ER-associated degradation substrate is stopped at the ER quality control checkpoint with no requirements for an ER-Golgi recycling pathway. Co-immmunoprecipitation experiments showed that soluble tyrosinase interacts with calreticulin and BiP/GRP78 (and not calnexin) during its ER transit. Expression of soluble tyrosinase in calreticulin-deficient cells resulted in the export of soluble tyrosinase of the ER, indicating the calreticulin role in ER retention. Taken together, these data show that OCAI soluble tyrosinase is an ER-associated degradation substrate that, unlike other albino tyrosinases, associates with calreticulin and BiP/GRP78. The lack of specificity for calnexin interaction reveals a novel role for calreticulin in OCAI albinism."	2005	Apr-08	280	14	13833-40	15677452	0
647	"Popescu, CI"	Productive folding of tyrosinase ectodomain is controlled by the transmembrane anchor	J Biol Chem	"Transmembrane domains (TMDs) are known as structural elements required for the insertion into the membrane of integral membrane proteins. We provide here an example showing that the presence of the TMD is compulsory for the productive folding pathway of a membrane anchored glycoprotein. Tyrosinase, a type I transmembrane protein whose insertion into the melanosomal membrane initiates melanin synthesis is misfolded and degraded when expressed as a truncated polypeptide. We used constructs of tyrosinase ectodomain fused with chimeric TMDs or glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol-anchor to gain insights into how the TMD enables the productive folding pathway of the ectodomain. We find that in contrast to the soluble constructs, the membrane anchored chimeras fold into the native conformation which allows their ER exit. They recruit calnexin to monitor their productive folding pathway characterized by the post-translational formation of buried disulfides. Lacking calnexin assistance, the truncated mutant is arrested in an unstable conformation bearing exposed disulfides. We show that the transmembrane anchor of a protein may crucially, albeit indirectly, control the folding pathway of the ectodomain."	2006	May-31				16737954	0
648	"Powell, AK and Harvey, DJ"	Stabilization of sialic acids in N-linked oligosaccharides and gangliosides for analysis by positive ion matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry of oligosaccharides and gangliosides normally causes loss of sialic acid, particularly when alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid is used as the matrix. In addition, the potential signal is split because both positive and, to a greater extent, negative ions are formed while signals are frequently complicated as the result of partial alkali-salt formation. In order to stabilize the sialic acid moieties under MALDI conditions and to divert all of the signal into the positive-ion mode, a method involving their conversion into methyl esters has been developed. The method is relatively rapid and produces strong positive-ion signals from N-linked oligosaccharides containing sialic acid and from gangliosides. The latter compounds are stable, even in the presence of alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid. They give abundant molecular (MNa+) ions, but with sufficient residual in-source fragmentation to allow the sequence of the sugar chain to be determined. The sialic acid residue is stable after methylation, irrespective of its linkage to the parent molecule."	1996		10	9	1027-32	8755235	0
649	"Power, GW"	The effect of dietary lipid manipulation on hepatic mitochondrial phospholipid fatty acid composition and carnitine palmitoyltransferase I activity	Biochem Mol Biol Int	"The maximal activity of the overt from of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (CPT I; EC 2.3.1.21) and its sensitivity to inhibition by malonyl CoA were measured in mitochondria prepared from the livers of rats which had been fed for 10 weeks on either a low fat diet (LF; 2.4% fat by weight) or on one of four high fat diets which contained 20% by weight of either hydrogenated coconut oil (HCO), olive oil (OO), safflower oil (SO) or menhaden (fish) oil (MO). CPT I activity (i.e. activity per g of liver tissue), was elevated in animals fed the OO, SO or MO diets compared with those fed the LF or HCO diets. Feeding the HCO diet did not result in elevation of CPT I activity compared with feeding the LF diet. CPT I specific activity (i.e. activity per mg mitochondrial protein) was elevated in animals fed SO diet, but not in animals fed any of the other high fat diets. These observations suggest that an elevated fat load is not solely responsible for increasing CPT I activity, but that the fatty acid composition of the diet also plays a role. Hepatic CPT I activity of rats fed the LF diet was most sensitive to inhibition by malonyl CoA ([I50] = 0.53 microM). Each of the high fat diets decreased the sensitivity of CPT I to inhibition by malonyl CoA; CPT I activity in the livers from animals fed the MO diet was the least sensitive to malonyl CoA inhibition ([I50] = 1.8 microM). The fatty acid compositions of the major mitochondrial membrane phospholipids, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine and cardiolipin were modified according to the fatty acid composition of the diet. Each of these phospholipids had a distinct fatty acid composition and similar effects of dietary lipid manipulation on the fatty acid compositions were observed. Feeding the SO diet resulted in fatty acid compositions which were most similar to those found after feeding the LF diet. Feeding the HCO and OO diets increased the proportions of stearic and oleic acids, respectively, while decreasing the proportion of linoeic acid. Feeding the MO diet resulted in increased proportions of palmitic, palmitoleic, eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids and decreased proportions of linoleic and arachidonic acids in each of the phospholipids. It is proposed that the effects of dietary lipid manipulation upon CTP I activity and sensitivity to inhibition by malonyl CoA are due to alterations in the fatty acid composition of the phospholipids in the mitochondrial membrane where CPT I resides."	1994	Oct	34	4	671-84	7866292	0
650	"Powlesland, AS"	Novel mouse homologs of human DC-SIGN: widely divergent biochemical properties of the complete set of mouse DC-SIGN-related proteins	J Biol Chem	"The mouse genome sequence has been examined to identify the complete set of proteins related to the human glycan-binding receptor DC-SIGN. In addition to five SIGNR proteins previously described, a pseudogene, SIGNR6, and a further two expressed proteins, SIGNR7 and SIGNR8, have been identified. The ligand-binding properties of these novel proteins and of the previously described mouse SIGNs have been systematically investigated in order to define the mouse proteins that most resemble human DC-SIGN and DC-SIGNR. Results from screening of a glycan array demonstrate that only mouse SIGNR3 shares with human DC-SIGN the ability to bind both high mannose and fucose-terminated glycans in this format and to mediate endocytosis. The finding that neither SIGNR1 nor SIGNR5 binds with high affinity to specific ligands in a large panel of mammalian glycans is consistent with the suggestion that these receptors bind surface polysaccharides on bacterial and fungal pathogens in a manner analogous to serum mannose-binding protein. The data also reveal that two of the mouse SIGNs have unusual binding specificities that have not been previously described for members of the C-type lectin family: the newly identified SIGNR7 binds preferentially to the 6-sulfo-sialyl Lewisx oligosaccharide, while SIGNR2 binds almost exclusively to glycans that bear terminal GlcNAc residues. The results presented demonstrate that the mouse homologs of DC-SIGN have a diverse set of ligand-binding and intracellular trafficking properties, some of which are distinct from the properties of any of the human receptors."	2006	May-08				16682406	0
651	"Priestman, DA"	Imino sugar therapy for type 1 Gaucher disease	Glycobiology		2000	Nov	10	11	iv-vi	11221677	0
652	"Quesenberry, MS and Drickamer, K"	Determination of the minimum carbohydrate-recognition domain in two C-type animal lectins	Glycobiology	"Comparison of the primary structures of numerous Ca(2+)-dependent animal lectins reveals the presence of a common sequence motif which has been suggested to form the carbohydrate-recognition domain in these proteins. The extent of the functional carbohydrate-recognition domains in two rat C-type lectins, mannose-binding protein A and the major subunit of the asialoglycoprotein receptor (rat hepatic lectin 1), has been defined by expressing truncated fragments of the proteins in an in vitro transcription and translation system. The shortest fully functional fragments constitute the COOH-terminal 120 amino acids of mannose-binding protein A and 135 amino acids of rat hepatic lectin 1. These segments correspond closely to protease-resistant protein cores which can be isolated from the native lectins. The NH2-terminal boundary of each minimum carbohydrate-recognition domain falls near the site of an intron in the corresponding gene."	1991	Dec	1	6	615-21	1822241	0
653	"Quesenberry, MS and Drickamer, K"	Role of conserved and nonconserved residues in the Ca(2+)-dependent carbohydrate-recognition domain of a rat mannose-binding protein. Analysis by random cassette mutagenesis	J Biol Chem	"The carbohydrate-recognition domain of rat serum mannose-binding protein A has been subjected to random cassette mutagenesis. Mutant domains, expressed in bacteria, were initially screened for binding to invertase-coated nitrocellulose and then analyzed further for Ca2+ affinity, saccharide binding, resistance to proteolysis, and oligomerization. The results are consistent with previous evolutionary and structural studies. Six out of seven completely inactive mutants have changes in residues directly involved in ligating Ca2+. Most changes in conserved residues which form part of the hydrophobic core characteristic of Ca(2+)-dependent (C-type) animal lectins result in decreased affinity for Ca2+, even though these residues are distant from the Ca2+ sites. Changes can be made in large portions of the surface without affecting saccharide binding. The results indicate that the precise arrangement of the regular portion of the domain containing the hydrophobic core is necessary for formation of a stable Ca(2+)-ligated structure under physiological conditions. The data also suggest that the saccharide-binding site is likely to be in close proximity to the bound Ca2+."	1992	May-25	267	15	10831-41	1587859	0
654	"Quest, AF"	Myristoylated and nonmyristoylated pools of sea urchin sperm flagellar creatine kinase exist side-by-side: myristoylation is necessary for efficient lipid association	Biochemistry	"In sperm of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, a functional phosphocreatine shuttle, that requires the existence of mitochondrial and cytosolic creatine kinase (CK) isoforms in distinct locations, is essential for sperm motility. S. purpuratus sperm have an unusually large, 145 kDa CK isoform, present exclusively in the sperm tail (TCK), that is enriched in flagellum membrane preparations. Purified TCK contains two very similar proteins, designated TCKI and TCKII, of which only TCKII associates readily with liposomes and detergent micelles in vitro. Here we demonstrate by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry combined with selective ion monitoring that ions diagnostic for the presence of myristoylglycine in proteins are found in TCKII, but not TCKI. By contrast, TCKI, but not TCKII, served in vitro as a substrate for recombinant, polyhistidine-tagged N-myristoyltransferase and was myristoylated to high stoichiometries (0.58 +/- 0.14 pmol of myristate/pmol of TCK), in the presence of myristoyl-CoA, on glycine in amide linkage. In vitro myristoylated TCKI associated with phosphatidylcholine (PC)/phosphatidylserine (PS) (75:25) liposomes and Triton X-100 detergent micelles in gel filtration assays and with PC/PS liposomes in a centrifugation assay in the same manner as did TCKII. In gel filtration experiments, TCKI required at least 25-fold higher PC/PS liposome concentrations than TCKII to obtain 50% association. A partition coefficient of 0.8 x 10(5) M(-1) was determined for TCKII with PC/PS (75:25) liposomes in the centrifugation assay. Thus, myristoylated and nonmyristoylated forms of TCK exist side-by-side in the sea urchin flagellum, and myristoylation is essential for efficient liposome association of TCK."	1997	Jun-10	36	23	6993-7002	9188696	0
655	"Rabinovitch, RA"	Ductal carcinoma in situ and microinvasive disease. American College of Radiology. ACR Appropriateness Criteria	Radiology		2000	Jun	215 Suppl		1137-52	11037538	0
656	"Radcliffe, CM"	Identification of specific glycoforms of major histocompatibility complex class I heavy chains suggests that class I peptide loading is an adaptation of the quality control pathway involving calreticulin and ERp57	J Biol Chem	"Glycosylation analysis was used to probe the sequence of events accompanying the binding of antigenic peptides to the major histocompatibility complex class I heavy chains. Free heavy chains were isolated from the beta(2)-microglobulin-negative cell line Daudi and from the B-lymphoblastoid cell line Raji. Heavy chains were also isolated from Raji cells in multimolecular complexes (peptide loading complexes) containing the transporter associated with antigen processing, tapasin and ERp57 with and without the lectin-like folding chaperone, calreticulin. Calreticulin is a soluble protein that recognizes primarily the terminal glucose of Glc(1)Man(7-9)GlcNAc(2) glycans. This paper shows that monoglucosylated glycoforms of heavy chain, which exist transiently in the endoplasmic reticulum in the initial stages of the glycosylation processing pathway, are present in the peptide loading complex. The data are consistent with a model in which the release of peptide-loaded major histocompatibility complex class I molecules from calreticulin, induced by deglucosylation of the heavy chain N-linked glycan, signals the dissociation of the complex. This is consistent with the hypothesis that the class I loading process is an adaptation of the quality control mechanism involving calreticulin and ERp57."	2002	Nov-29	277	48	46415-23	12235131	478
657	"Rademacher, TW"	Structural and conformational analysis of immunoglobulin-derived N-linked oligosaccharides	Biochem Soc Trans		1983	Apr	11 Pt 2		132-4	6873449	0
658	"Rademacher, TW"	Immunoglobulin G as a glycoprotein	Biochem Soc Symp		1986		51		131-48	3814165	0
659	"Rademacher, TW"	The role of IgG glycoforms in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis	Springer Semin Immunopathol		1988		10	02-Mar	231-49	3055379	0
660	"Rademacher, TW"	Glycobiology	Annu Rev Biochem		1988		57		785-838	3052290	0
661	"Rademacher, TW and Dwek, RA"	The role of oligosaccharides in modifying protein function	Ciba Found Symp	"It has been proposed that protein-bound oligosaccharides interact with the protein to which they are attached to up- or down-regulate the bioactivity of the 'composite' glycoprotein. Oligosaccharide analyses of the glycoproteins Thy-1, tissue plasminogen activator and immunoglobulin G are presented. Correlations between particular glycoforms and enzymic activities are demonstrated for tissue plasminogen activator. The change in the prevalence of particular immunoglobulin G glycoforms is shown to correlate with disease activity in rheumatoid activity."	1989		145		241-55; discussion 2	2571463	0
662	"Rademacher, TW"	Dropping anchor with the lipophosphoglycans	Curr Biol		1991	Feb	1	1	41-2	15336204	0
663	"Rademacher, TW"	Agalactosyl glycoforms of IgG autoantibodies are pathogenic	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"The glycosylation of IgG results in many different glycoforms. A large body of correlative data (including remission of arthritis during pregnancy) has suggested that IgG molecules lacking galactose were associated with rheumatoid arthritis. We now demonstrate that agalactosyl IgG glycoforms are directly associated with pathogenicity in murine collagen-induced arthritis. We show that passive transfer of an acute synovitis in T-cell-primed mice can be enhanced by using IgG containing autoantibodies to type II collagen when the antibodies are present as the agalactosyl glycoform. Thus, nonpathogenic doses of autoantibodies can be made pathogenic by altering their glycosylation state."	1994	Jun-21	91	13	6123-7	8016124	0
664	"Rahman, R"	Do climatic variables influence the development of posterior vitreous detachment?	Br J Ophthalmol		2002	Jul	86	7	829	12084761	0
665	"Raine, JM"	"The effects of delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol on mammary gland growth, enzyme activity and plasma prolactin levels in the mouse"	Eur J Pharmacol	"DELTA1-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta1-THC), a highly lipid soluble and active principle of cannabis, was injected each day (25 mg/kg) s.c. in mice from the estimated 13th day of pregnancy. Delta1-THC-treated mice showed no increase in the wet weight or DNA content of their mammary glands during the period of investigation from before parturition until the 12th day post-partum. A marked increase in mammary-gland lipoprotein lipase activity w,s found in control mice at parturition and this was suppressed by delta1-THC. Prolactin rose to a peak level in plasma earlier in lactation in the control mice than in the delta1-THC-treated mice. This delayed rise in plasma prolactin due to delta1-THC may account for the depression of mammary gland growth and development by the drug and for the delay in the appearance of high activities of lipoprotein lipase until later in lactation."	1978	Sep-01	51	1	11-Jul	699971	0
666	"Ranes, MK"	N -butyldeoxynojirimycin reduces growth and ganglioside content of experimental mouse brain tumours	Br J Cancer	"Abnormalities in glycosphingolipid (GSL) biosynthesis have been implicated in the oncogenesis and malignancy of brain tumours. GSLs comprise the gangliosides and the neutral GSLs and are major components of the cell surface glycocalyx. N -butyldeoxynojirimycin (N B-DNJ) is an imino sugar that inhibits the glucosyltransferase catalysing the first step in GSL biosynthesis. The influence of N B-DNJ was studied on the growth and ganglioside composition of two 20-methylcholanthrene-induced experimental mouse brain tumours, EPEN and CT-2A, which were grown in vitro and in vivo. N B-DNJ (200 microM) inhibited the proliferation of the EPEN and CT-2A cells by 50%, but did not reduce cell viability. The drug, administered in the diet (2400 mg kg(-1)) to adult syngeneic C57BL/6 mice, reduced the growth and ganglioside content of subcutaneous and intracerebral EPEN and CT-2A tumours by at least 50% compared to the untreated controls. N B-DNJ treatment also shifted the relative distribution of tumour gangliosides in accordance with the depletion of metabolic substrates. Side effects of N B-DNJ treatment were generally mild and included reductions in body and spleen weights and intestinal distension. We conclude that N B-DNJ may inhibit tumour growth through an effect on ganglioside biosynthesis and may be useful as a new chemotherapy for brain tumours."	2001	Apr-20	84	8	1107-14	11308262	0
667	"Reiling, N"	Complex encounters at the macrophage-mycobacterium interface: studies on the role of the mannose receptor and CD14 in experimental infection models with Mycobacterium avium	Immunobiology	"The initial interactions between mycobacterial cell wall components and receptor structures on the surface of macrophages may be critical in determining the outcome of infection. They may trigger the ingestion and digestion of microorganisms, but they may also promote the intracellular persistence and growth of mycobacteria. Using Mycobacterium avium as a model system, three approaches of different complexities were used to analyse some structural features and some functional consequences of M. avium interacting with the macrophage mannose receptor or CD14, a pattern recognition receptor. Binding specificities of a recombinant, truncated extracellular portion of the mannose receptor were assayed in a novel ELISA-formatted system using viable M. avium cells as ligands. Infection with M. avium strains differing in their virulence were performed in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages and in mice with a targeted deletion of the CD14 gene. These parallel and converging approaches not only help define the molecular basis for understanding early events in the pathogenesis of mycobacterial infections, but are also necessary to ultimately determine the relevance of in vitro findings in the context of actual manifestations of disease in vivo."	2001	Dec	204	5	558-71	11846219	0
668	"Rice, TW"	Accelerated induction therapy and resection for poor prognosis stage III non-small cell lung cancer	Ann Thorac Surg	"BACKGROUND. Induction therapy and resection may improve the survival of patients with poor prognosis stage III non-small cell lung cancer, at the cost of significant treatment prolongation. The purpose of this study was to assess toxicity, response, and survival of an accelerated induction regimen and resection in poor prognosis stage III non-small cell lung cancer. METHODS. Forty-two surgically staged patients with poor prognosis stage III non-small cell lung cancer received 11 days of induction treatment consisting of 96 hours of continuous chemotherapy infusions of cisplatin (20 mg.m-2.day-2), 5 fluorouracil (1,000 mg.m-2.day-2), and etoposide (75 mg.m-2.day-2) concurrent with accelerated fractionation radiation therapy (1.5 Gy twice a day, to a dose of 27 Gy). Induction was followed in 4 weeks by resection. Postoperatively, a second course of continuous chemotherapy and concurrent accelerated fractionation radiation therapy (postoperative dose 13 to 36 Gy) was given. RESULTS. Despite some degree of induction toxicity in all patients there was only one induction death (2.4%). A clinical partial response was seen in 24 patients (57%). Thirty-six patients (86%) underwent thoracotomy, and resection was possible in 33 (79%). Pathologic downstaging was seen in 17 patients (40%), and 2 patients (5%) had no residual carcinoma at operation. There were 11 postoperative complications (31%) and 4 postoperative deaths (11%). Thirteen patients (31%) are alive and disease-free, 24 (57%) have persistent disease or have recurred (15 distant, 5 locoregional, 4 both), and 9 patients are alive with disease. The median survival is 21 months and the 2-year Kaplan-Meier survival is 43%, with no differences identified between stages IIIA and IIIB patients (p = 0.63). CONCLUSIONS. We conclude that accelerated induction therapy and resection in poor prognosis stage III non-small cell lung cancer (1) is toxic, with a 12% treatment mortality; (2) is effective with a 79% resection rate and 40% pathologic downstaging rate; (3) provides excellent local control; (4) may prolong survival; and (5) is of value in stage IIIB as well as stage IIIA patients."	1995	Sep	60	3	586-91; discussion 5	7677484	0
669	"Rini, J and Drickamer, K"	Carbohydrates and glycoconjugates	Curr Opin Struct Biol		1997	Oct	7	5	615-6	9345617	0
670	"Ritchie, GE"	Glycosylation and the complement system	Chem Rev		2002	Feb	102	2	305-20-19	11841245	0
671	"Roberts, DB"	Mutant analysis reveals an alternative pathway for N-linked glycosylation in Drosophila melanogaster	Eur J Biochem	"The mas-1 gene of Drosophila melanogaster encodes Golgi mannosidase I (MAS-1), and flies homozygous for small deletions of the gene are viable. They show but few abnormalities and those have a low penetrance [Kerscher, S., Albert, S., Wucherpfennig, D., Heisenberg, M. & Schneuwly, S. (1995) Dev. Biol. 168, 613-626]. Here we sequence the N-linked oligosaccharides associated with a reporter protein, and with membrane proteins prepared from wild type and MAS-1 null organisms. The results show that the null organisms synthesise the same range of oligosaccharides as wild type, albeit with different ratios. There is an accumulation of the Man8GlcNAc2 which is one of the substrates for the MAS-1 enzyme. This supports the suggestion of Kerscher et al. that the lack of severe phenotypic disturbances in the null organisms is due to the presence of an alternative pathway(s), but it also shows that this alternative pathway(s) does not entirely compensate for the normal pathway."	1998	Apr-15	253	2	494-8	9654102	0
672	"Robinson, DS and Wing, DR"	Regulation of adipose tissue clearing factor lipase activity	Horm Metab Res		1970		2		Suppl 2:41-6	4949049	0
673	"Robinson, DS and Wing, DR"	Studies on tissue clearing factor lipase related to its role in the removal of lipoprotein triglyceride from the plasma	Biochem Soc Symp		1971			33	123-35	4951060	0
674	"Robinson, DS and Wing, DR"	Clearing factor lipase and its role in the regulation of triglyceride utilization. Studies on the enzyme in adipose tissue	Adv Exp Med Biol		1972		26	0	71-6	4369865	0
675	"Roitt, IM"	Changes in carbohydrate structure of IgG in rheumatoid arthritis	Recenti Prog Med		1988	Jul-Aug	79	07-Aug	314-7	3144028	0
676	"Rosett, T"	Studies in the biochemistry of micro-organisms. 103. Metabolites of Alternaria tenuis auct; culture filtrate products	Biochem J		1957	Nov	67	3	390-400	13479395	0
677	"Routier, FH"	Quantitation of the oligosaccharides of human serum IgG from patients with rheumatoid arthritis: a critical evaluation of different methods	J Immunol Methods	"Several different chromatographic methods and a lectin-based assay have been compared for the quantitation of oligosaccharides released from immunoglobulin G (IgG). The analysis of a series of IgG samples purified from the serum of rheumatoid arthritis patients was carried out by these methods to evaluate the percentage of the glycoforms having 0, 1 or 2 galactose residues (G0, G1 and G2) in order to (a) identify the method that can be most widely used for quantitation, (b) accurately define the range of G0 values found in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and (c) make available a series of characterised standards for distribution to clinical chemistry laboratories. The chromatographic methods involved: release of oligosaccharides by glycoamidase A after protease digestion followed by HPLC analysis of aminopyridine derivatives on reverse phase and normal phase columns; hydrazinolysis treatment with exoglycosidases (G0 mix) and Biogel P4 chromatography of 2-aminobenzamide (2-AB) derivatives; hydrazinolysis and weak anion exchange or normal phase HPLC of 2-AB derivatives; release of oligosaccharides by PNGase F and either Biogel P4 chromatography of 2-AB derivatives or HPAEC-PAD analysis of native oligosaccharides. The G0 values given by these methods compared favourably with each other and a dot blot assay of denatured IgG interaction with Ricinus communis agglutinin and Bandeiraea simplicifolialectin II. The HPLC and HPAEC methods give additional information that may be important in less routine assays."	1998	Apr-15	213	2	113-30	9692845	294
678	"Royle, L"	An analytical and structural database provides a strategy for sequencing O-glycans from microgram quantities of glycoproteins	Anal Biochem	"A sensitive, rapid, quantitative strategy has been developed for O-glycan analysis. A structural database has been constructed that currently contains analytical parameters for more than 50 glycans, enabling identification of O-glycans at the subpicomole level. The database contains the structure, molecular weight, and both normal and reversed-phase HPLC elution positions for each glycan. These observed parameters reflect the mass, three-dimensional shape, and hydrophobicity of the glycans and, therefore, provide information relating to linkage and arm specificity as well as monosaccharide composition. Initially the database was constructed by analyzing glycans released by mild hydrazinolysis from bovine serum fetuin, synthetic glycopeptides, human glycophorin A, and serum IgA1. The structures of the fluorescently labeled sugars were determined from a combination of HPLC data, mass spectrometric composition and mass fragmentation data, and exoglycosidase digestions. This approach was then applied to human neutrophil gelatinase B and secretory IgA, where 18 and 25 O-glycans were identified, respectively, and the parameters of these glycans were added to the database. This approach provides a basis for the analysis of subpicomole quantities of O-glycans from normal levels of natural glycoproteins."	2002	May-01	304	1	70-90	11969191	451
679	"Royle, L"	Secretory IgA N- and O-glycans provide a link between the innate and adaptive immune systems	J Biol Chem	"Secretory IgA (SIgA) is a multi-polypeptide complex consisting of a secretory component (SC) covalently attached to dimeric IgA containing one joining (J) chain. We present the analysis of both the N- and O-glycans on the individual peptides from this complex. Based on these data, we have constructed a molecular model of SIgA1 with all its glycans, in which the Fab arms form a T shape and the SC is wrapped around the heavy chains. The O-glycan regions on the heavy (H) chains and the SC N-glycans have adhesin-binding glycan epitopes including galactose-linked beta1-4 and beta1-3 to GlcNAc, fucose-linked alpha1-3 and alpha1-4 to GlcNAc and alpha1-2 to galactose, and alpha2-3 and alpha2-6-linked sialic acids. These glycan epitopes provide SIgA with further bacteria-binding sites in addition to the four Fab-binding sites, thus enabling SIgA to participate in both innate and adaptive immunity. We also show that the N-glycans on the H chains of both SIgA1 and SIgA2 present terminal GlcNAc and mannose residues that are normally masked by SC, but that can be unmasked and recognized by mannose-binding lectin, by disrupting the SC-H chain noncovalent interactions."	2003	May-30	278	22	20140-53	12637583	501
680	"Rudd, PM"	Diversification of the IgG molecule by oligosaccharides	Mol Immunol		1991	Dec	28	12	1369-78	1749386	0
681	"Rudd, PM"	Separation and analysis of the glycoform populations of ribonuclease B using capillary electrophoresis	Glycoconj J	"The development of methods to separate, analyse and monitor changes in glycoform populations is essential if a more detailed understanding of the structure, function and processing of glycoproteins is to emerge. In this study, intact ribonuclease B was resolved by borate capillary electrophoresis into five populations according to the particular oligomannose structure associated with each glycoform. The relative proportions of these populations are correlated with the percentages obtained indirectly by analysis of the hydrazine released oligosaccharides using Bio-Gel P-4 gel filtration, matrix assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry and high performance anion exchange chromatography. Alterations in the composition of the glycoform populations during digestion of ribonuclease B with A. saitoi alpha(1-2)mannosidase were monitored by capillary electrophoresis (CE). Digestion of the free oligosaccharides under the same conditions, monitored by anion exchange chromatography, revealed a difference in rate, allowing some insight into the role of the protein during oligosaccharide processing. In conjunction with other methods, this novel application of CE may prove a useful addition to the techniques available for the study of glycoform populations."	1992	Apr	9	2	86-91	1344713	0
682	"Rudd, PM"	A human T-cell receptor recognizes 'O'-linked sugars from the hinge region of human IgA1 and IgD	Immunology	"A receptor which binds secretory IgA (sIgA) is expressed on human T cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, Behcet's syndrome and IgA nephropathy and on normal T cells following phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) stimulation. The specificity of this receptor was initially probed with a panel of normal serum immunoglobulins in competitive inhibition assays with sIgA using two-colour immunofluorescence. While the receptor showed the strongest affinity for IgA1 (IC(50)10(-6) M), IgD which has a similarly glycosylated hinge region to IgA1, also bound to the receptor (IC50 10(-5) M). IgA2, which lacks the 'O'-glycosylated hinge region, did not significantly inhibit the binding at these concentrations suggesting that the IgA determinants for this receptor might be the oligosaccharides present in the hinge region of IgA1. IgA1 has up to 10 'O'-linked oligosaccharides and four N-linked oligosaccharides per molecule. In order to probe the role of the 'O'-linked hinge sugars in the binding event, a sugar library was prepared from IgA1 by a procedure designed to release 'O'-linked oligosaccharides preferentially, and to retain them in the natural closed ring formation. The sugars were released by hydrazinolysis at 65 degrees and the resulting oligosaccharide library analysed by high voltage paper electrophoresis (HVE) and P4 gel permeation chromatography. Competitive inhibition studies demonstrated that both the library and the individual 'O'-linked sugars associated with IgA1 were implicated in the binding of IgA1 to this receptor (IC50 between 1 x 10(-5) M and 6 x 10(-5) M). Within this range the individual sugars showed small differences in their affinity for the receptor in the following order: Gal beta 3GalNAc = NeuNAc2 alpha 3(6)Gal beta 3GalNAc > NeuNAc2 alpha 3(6)Gal beta 3[NeuNAc2 alpha 6]GalNAc > or = GalNAc."	1994	Sep	83	1	99-106	7821975	0
683	"Rudd, PM"	Glycoforms modify the dynamic stability and functional activity of an enzyme	Biochemistry	"Glycoproteins generally consist of collections of glycosylated variants (glycoforms) in which an ensemble of different oligosaccharides is associated with each glycosylation site. Bovine pancreatic ribonuclease B occurs naturally as a mixture of five glycoforms in which the same polypeptide sequence is associated with a series of oligomannose sugars attached at the single N-glycosylation site. Individual glycoforms were prepared by exoglycosidase digestions of RNase B and analyzed directly at the protein level by capillary electrophoresis. For the first time, electrophoretically pure single glycoforms have been available to explore the possibility that different sugars might specifically modify the structure, dynamics, stability, and functional properties of the protein to which they are attached. Comparisons of the amide proton exchange rates for individual glycoforms of RNase B and unglycosylated RNase A showed that while the 3D structure was unaffected, glycosylation decreased dynamic fluctuations throughout the molecule. There was individual variation in the NH-ND exchange rates of the same protons in different glycoforms, demonstrating the effects of variable glycosylation on dynamic stability. Consistent with the overall decrease in flexibility, and with the possibility that all of the sugars may afford steric protection to susceptible sites, was the finding that each of the glycoforms tested showed increased resistance to Pronase compared with the unglycosylated protein. In a novel sensitive assay using double-stranded RNA substrate, the different glycoforms showed nearly a 4-fold variation in functional activity; molecular modeling suggested that steric factors may also play a role in modulating this interaction."	1994	Jan-11	33	1	17-22	8286336	0
684	"Rudd, PM"	"The effects of variable glycosylation on the functional activities of ribonuclease, plasminogen and tissue plasminogen activator"	Biochim Biophys Acta	"The relatively large size and dynamics of oligosaccharides can result in substantial shielding of functionally important areas of proteins to which they are attached, modulate the interactions of glycoconjugates with other molecules and affect the rate of processes which involve conformational changes. This review focuses on the occupancy of N-linked glycosylation sites on three enzymes, ribonuclease, plasminogen and tissue plasminogen activator. Each of these proteins occurs naturally as two populations of molecules, distinguished from each other only by the presence or absence of an oligosaccharide at one glycosylation site. The presence of an oligomannose sugar on ribonuclease (at Asn-34) alters its overall dynamics, increases its stability towards proteinases and decreases its functional activity towards double-stranded RNA. The N-linked sugar on plasminogen (at Asn-288) within kringle 3 reduces the rate of the beta- to alpha-conformational change, modulates the transport of plasminogen into the extravascular compartment, decreases plasminogen binding to U937 cells and downregulates the activation of plasminogen by both urokinase and tissue plasminogen activator. Additionally, in fibrinolysis, within a ternary complex of fibrin, plasminogen and tissue plasminogen activator, the N-linked sugar of plasminogen hinders the initial interaction with tissue plasminogen activator (i.e., it alters Km). The presence of an N-linked glycan (at Asn-184) in the kringle 2 domain of tissue plasminogen activator hinders the rearrangement of this ternary complex, decreasing the turnover rate (Kcat)."	1995	Apr-05	1248	1	01-Oct	7711052	0
685	"Rudd, PM"	Roles for glycosylation in the anti-inflammatory molecule CD59	Biochem Soc Trans		1997	Nov	25	4	1177-84	9449971	0
686	"Rudd, PM and Dwek, RA"	"Rapid, sensitive sequencing of oligosaccharides from glycoproteins"	Curr Opin Biotechnol	"The release of sub-picomole levels of N-linked oligosaccharides directly from 1-5 micrograms of protein in a band on an SDS PAGE gel, coupled with recent advances in mass spectrometry and HPLC, opens the way for the analysis of biologically important glycoproteins that are difficult to purify or are available only in limited amounts. A straightforward HPLC strategy enables the structures of both neutral and sialylated components of the N-glycan pool to be predicted from a single run. The entire pool of sugars may then be sequenced simultaneously, using exoglycosidase arrays."	1997	Aug	8	4	488-97	9265730	257
687	"Rudd, PM"	Oligosaccharide sequencing technology	Nature		1997	Jul-10	388	6638	205-7	9217165	255
688	"Rudd, PM"	"The glycosylation of the complement regulatory protein, human erythrocyte CD59"	J Biol Chem	"Human erythrocyte CD59 contains N- and O-glycans and a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor, all of which have been analyzed in this study. The anchor consists principally of the minimum core glycan sequence Manalpha1-2Manalpha1-6Manalpha1-4GlcN-linked to a phosphatidylinositol moiety with the structure sn-1-O-alkyl(C18:0 and C18:1)-2-O-acyl(C20:4)glycerol-3-phospho-1-(2-O-palmitoyl(C16:0))myo- inositol. This structure is essentially identical to that of human erythrocyte cholinesterase (Deeg, M. A., Humphrey, D. R., Yang, S. H. , Ferguson, T. R., Reinhold, V. N., and Rosenberry, T. L. (1992) J. Biol. Chem. 267, 18573-18580). This first comparison of GPI anchors from different proteins expressed in the same tissue suggests that human reticulocytes produce only one type of anchor structure. The N- and O-glycans were sequenced using a novel approach involving digestion of the total glycan pool with multiple enzyme arrays. The N-glycan pool contained families of bi-antennary complex-type structures with and without lactosamine extensions and outer arm fucose residues. The predominant O-glycans were NeuNAcalpha2-3Galbeta1-3GalNAc and Galbeta1-3[NeuNAcalpha2-3]GalNAc. Inspection of a molecular model of CD59, based on the NMR solution structure of the extracellular domain and the structural data from this study, suggested several roles for the glycans, including spacing and orienting CD59 on the cell surface and protecting the molecule from proteases. This work completes the initial structural analysis of CD59, providing the most complete view of any cell surface glycoprotein studied to date."	1997	Mar-14	272	11	7229-44	9054419	246
689	"Rudd, PM and Dwek, RA"	Glycosylation: heterogeneity and the 3D structure of proteins	Crit Rev Biochem Mol Biol	"Glycoproteins generally exist as populations of glycosylated variants (glycoforms) of a single polypeptide. Although the same glycosylation machinery is available to all proteins that enter the secretory pathway in a given cell, most glycoproteins emerge with characteristic glycosylation patterns and heterogeneous populations of glycans at each glycosylation site. The factors that control the composition of the glycoform populations and the role that heterogeneity plays in the function of glycoproteins are important questions for glycobiology. A full understanding of the implications of glycosylation for the structure and function of a protein can only be reached when a glycoprotein is viewed as a single entity. Individual glycoproteins, by virtue of their unique structures, can selectively control their own glycosylation by modulating interactions with the glycosylating enzymes in the cell. Examples include protein-specific glycosylation within the immunoglobulins and immunoglobulin superfamily and site-specific processing in ribonuclease, Thy-1, IgG, tissue plasminogen activator, and influenza A hemagglutinin. General roles for the range of sugars on glycoproteins such as the leukocyte antigens include orientating the molecules on the cell surface. A major role for specific sugars is in recognition by lectins, including chaperones involved in protein folding. In addition, the recognition of identical motifs in different glycans allows a heterogeneous population of glycoforms to participate in specific biological interactions."	1997		32	1	1-100	9063619	0
690	"Rudd, PM"	Glycosylation and the immune system	J Protein Chem		1998	Aug	17	6	519	9723723	0
691	"Rudd, PM"	"The glycosylation of the complement regulatory protein, human erythrocyte CD59"	Adv Exp Med Biol		1998		435		153-62	9498074	0
692	"Rudd, PM"	Glycoproteins: rapid sequencing technology for N-linked and GPI anchor glycans	Biotechnol Genet Eng Rev		1999		16		Jan-21	10819075	0
693	"Rudd, PM"	Glycosylation differences between the normal and pathogenic prion protein isoforms	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"Prion protein consists of an ensemble of glycosylated variants or glycoforms. The enzymes that direct oligosaccharide processing, and hence control the glycan profile for any given glycoprotein, are often exquisitely sensitive to other events taking place within the cell in which the glycoprotein is expressed. Alterations in the populations of sugars attached to proteins can reflect changes caused, for example, by developmental processes or by disease. Here we report that normal (PrP(C)) and pathogenic (PrP(Sc)) prion proteins (PrP) from Syrian hamsters contain the same set of at least 52 bi-, tri-, and tetraantennary N-linked oligosaccharides, although the relative proportions of individual glycans differ. This conservation of structure suggests that the conversion of PrP(C) into PrP(Sc) is not confined to a subset of PrPs that contain specific sugars. Compared with PrP(C), PrP(Sc) contains decreased levels of glycans with bisecting GlcNAc residues and increased levels of tri- and tetraantennary sugars. This change is consistent with a decrease in the activity of N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase III (GnTIII) toward PrP(C) in cells where PrP(Sc) is formed and argues that, in at least some cells forming PrP(Sc), the glycosylation machinery has been perturbed. The reduction in GnTIII activity is intriguing both with respect to the pathogenesis of the prion disease and the replication pathway for prions."	1999	Nov-09	96	23	13044-9	10557270	341
694	"Rudd, PM"	Roles for glycosylation of cell surface receptors involved in cellular immune recognition	J Mol Biol	"The majority of cell surface receptors involved in antigen recognition by T cells and in the orchestration of the subsequent cell signalling events are glycoproteins. The length of a typical N-linked sugar is comparable with that of an immunoglobulin domain (30 A). Thus, by virtue of their size alone, oligosaccharides may be expected to play a significant role in the functions and properties of the cell surface proteins to which they are attached. A databank of oligosaccharide structures has been constructed from NMR and crystallographic data to aid in the interpretation of crystal structures of glycoproteins. As unambiguous electron density can usually only be assigned to the glycan cores, the remainder of the sugar is then modelled into the crystal lattice by superimposing the appropriate oligosaccharide from the database. This approach provides insights into the roles that glycosylation might play in cell surface receptors, by providing models that delineate potential close packing interactions on the cell surface. It has been proposed that the specific recognition of antigen by T cells results in the formation of an immunological synapse between the T cell and the antigen-presenting cell. The cell adhesion glycoproteins, such as CD2 and CD48, help to form a cell junction, providing a molecular spacer between opposing cells. The oligosaccharides located on the membrane proximal domains of CD2 and CD48 provide a scaffold to orient the binding faces, which leads to increased affinity. In the next step, recruitment of the peptide major histocompatibility complex (pMHC) by the T-cell receptors (TCRs) requires mobility on the membrane surface. The TCR sugars are located such that they could prevent non-specific aggregation. Importantly, the sugars limit the possible geometry and spacing of TCR/MHC clusters which precede cell signalling. We postulate that, in the final stage, the sugars could play a general role in controlling the assembly and stabilisation of the complexes in the synapse and in protecting them from proteolysis during prolonged T-cell engagement."	1999	Oct-22	293	2	351-66	10529350	0
695	"Rudd, PM"	Glycosylation of natural human neutrophil gelatinase B and neutrophil gelatinase B-associated lipocalin	Biochemistry	"Gelatinase B is a matrix metalloproteinase (MMP-9) involved in tissue remodeling, development, cancer, and inflammation. Neutrophils produce three major forms of (pro)gelatinase B: 92 kDa monomers, homodimers, and complexes of gelatinase B covalently bound to neutrophil gelatinase B-associated lipocalin (NGAL). In contrast to the case for other proteinases, little information about the glycosylation of any natural human MMP is available. Here, both gelatinase B and NGAL were purified from human peripheral blood neutrophils, and the entire contents of the released N- and O-glycan pools were analyzed simultaneously using recently developed high-performance liquid chromatography-based technology. The results are discussed within the context of the domain structure of gelatinase B and a molecular model of NGAL based on data from this study and the three-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) structure of the protein. More than 95% of the N-linked glycans attached to both gelatinase B and NGAL were partially sialylated, core-fucosylated biantennary structures with and without outer arm fucose. The O-linked glycans, which were estimated to comprise approximately 85% of the total sugars on gelatinase B, mainly consisted of type 2 cores with Galbeta1,4GlcNAc (lactosamine) extensions, with or without sialic acid or outer arm fucose. This paper also contains the first report of O-linked glycans attached to NGAL. Although both proteins were isolated from neutrophils and contained O-linked glycans mainly with type 2 cores, the glycans attached to individual serine/threonine residue(s) in NGAL were significantly smaller than those on gelatinase B. In contrast to NGAL, gelatinase B contains a region rich in Ser, Thr, and Pro typical of O-glycosylated mucin-like domains."	1999	Oct-19	38	42	13937-50	10529240	333
696	"Rudd, PM"	"Oligosaccharide analysis and molecular modeling of soluble forms of glycoproteins belonging to the Ly-6, scavenger receptor, and immunoglobulin superfamilies expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells"	Glycobiology	"Most cell surface molecules are glycoproteins consisting of linear arrays of globular domains containing stretches of amino acid sequence with similarities to regions in other proteins. These conserved regions form the basis for the classification of proteins into superfamilies. Recombinant soluble forms of six leukocyte antigens belonging to the Ly-6 (CD59), scavenger receptor (CD5), and immunoglobulin (CD2, CD48, CD4, and Thy-1) superfamilies were expressed in the same Chinese hamster ovary cell line, thus providing an opportunity to examine the extent to which N-linked oligosaccharide processing might vary in a superfamily-, domain-, or protein-dependent manner in a given cell. While we found no evidence for superfamily-specific modifications of the glycans, marked differences were seen in the types of oligosaccharides attached to individual proteins within a given superfamily. The relative importance of local protein surface properties versus the overall tertiary structure of the molecules in directing this protein-specific variation was examined in the context of molecular models. These were constructed using the 3D structures of the proteins, glycan data from this study, and an oligosaccharide structural database. The results indicated that both the overall organization of the domains and the local protein structure can have a large bearing on site-specific glycan modification of cells in stasis. This level of control ensures that the surface of a single cell will display a diverse repertoire of glycans and precludes the presentation of multiple copies of a single oligosaccharide on the cell surface. The glycans invariably shield large regions of the protein surfaces although, for the glycoproteins examined here, these did not hinder the known active sites of the molecules. The models also indicated that sugars are likely to play a role in the packing of the native cell surface glycoproteins and to limit nonspecific protein-protein interactions. In addition, glycans located close to the cell membrane are likely to affect crucially the orientation of the glycoproteins to which they are attached."	1999	May	9	5	443-58	10207177	321
697	"Rudd, PM"	Hybrid and complex glycans are linked to the conserved N-glycosylation site of the third eight-cysteine domain of LTBP-1 in insect cells	Biochemistry	"Covalent association of LTBP-1 (latent TGF-beta binding protein-1) to latent TGF-beta is mediated by the third eight-cysteine (also referred to as TB) module of LTBP-1, a domain designated as CR3. Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cells have proved a suitable cell system in which to study this association and to produce recombinant CR3, and we show here that another lepidopteran cell line, Trichoplusia niTN-5B1-4 (High-Five) cells, allows the recovery of large amounts of functional recombinant CR3. CR3 contains an N-glycosylation site, which is conserved in all forms of LTBP known to date. When we examined the status of this N-glycosylation using MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry and enzymatic analysis, we found that CR3 is one of the rare recombinant peptides modified with complex glycans in insect cells. Sf9 cells mainly processed the fucosylated paucomannosidic structure (GlcNAc)(2)(Mannose)(3)Fucose, although hybrid and complex N-glycosylations were also detected. In High-Five cells, the peptide was found to be modified with a wide variety of hybrid and complex sugars in addition to paucomanosidic oligosaccharides. Most glycans had one or two fucose residues bound through alpha1,3 and alpha1,6 linkages to the innermost GlcNAc. On the basis of these results and on the structure of an eight-cysteine domain from fibrillin-1, we present a model of glycosylated CR3 and discuss the role of glycosylation in eight-cysteine domain protein-protein interactions."	2000	Feb-22	39	7	1596-603	10677208	358
698	"Rudd, PM"	"A high-performance liquid chromatography based strategy for rapid, sensitive sequencing of N-linked oligosaccharide modifications to proteins in sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide electrophoresis gel bands"	Proteomics	"The majority of biologically active proteins are glycosylated, therefore any approach to proteomics which fails to address the analysis of oligosaccharides is necessarily incomplete. To appreciate the structure of a glycoprotein fully, to understand the roles for the attached oligosaccharides and to monitor disease associated changes it is necessary to visualise the sugars as well as the protein. To achieve this aim when biological samples are available at the low microgram level or less has involved increasing the sensitivity of the technology for glycan analysis. Since one protein may have many different oligosaccharides attached to it (glycoforms) this is a major technical challenge. CD59, for example, has over 100 different sugars at one N-linked glycosylation site. Applications of recently developed technology suggest that it is now becoming realistic to extend the proteomics analysis of glycoproteins to include details of glycosylation. This is achieved by releasing the N-glycans from the protein in a gel by optimised peptide-N-glycosidase F digestion. The released glycans are then tagged with the fluorophore, 2-amino benzamide. The labelled glycan pools (containing 50-100 femtomoles of glycans) are resolved by predictive normal phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on an amide based column or by reverse phase HPLC on a C18 column. Preliminary structural assignments are confirmed by exoglycosidase array digestions of the entire glycan pool. Complementary matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-mass spectrometry, which requires 10-20 times as much sugar for a single run, can be used where there is sufficient material. This provides a composition analysis but not linkage information."	2001	Feb	1	2	285-94	11680875	0
699	"Rudd, PM"	Holistic approaches to glycobiology	Nat Biotechnol		2001	Jun	19	6	531-2	11385450	0
700	"Rudd, PM"	"Prion glycoprotein: structure, dynamics, and roles for the sugars"	Biochemistry	"The prion protein contains two N-linked glycosylation sites and a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. The large size of the N-linked sugars, together with their dynamic properties, enables them to shield two orthogonal faces of the protein almost completely. Thus, the sugars can protect large regions of the protein surface from proteases and from nonspecific protein-protein interactions. Immunoprecipitation of prion protein with calnexin suggests that in the ER the oligosaccharides may provide a route for protein folding via the calnexin pathway. Major questions relate to the relevance of the glycoform distribution (as defined by glycan site occupancy) to strain type and disease transmission. Glycan analysis has shown that prion protein contains at least 52 different sugars, that these consist of a subset of brain sugars, and that there is site specific glycan processing. PrP(Sc) from the brains of Syrian hamsters contains the same set of glycans as PrP(C), but a higher proportion of tri- and tetra-antennary sugars. This may be attributed to a decrease in the activity of GnTIII. The GPI anchor, which is modified with sialic acid, may allow the prion protein to be mobile in the lipid bilayer. Potentially, this provides a possible means for translocating the prions from one cell to another."	2001	Apr-03	40	13	3759-66	11300755	0
701	"Rudd, PM"	Glycosylation and the immune system	Science	"Almost all of the key molecules involved in the innate and adaptive immune response are glycoproteins. In the cellular immune system, specific glycoforms are involved in the folding, quality control, and assembly of peptide-loaded major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens and the T cell receptor complex. Although some glycopeptide antigens are presented by the MHC, the generation of peptide antigens from glycoproteins may require enzymatic removal of sugars before the protein can be cleaved. Oligosaccharides attached to glycoproteins in the junction between T cells and antigen-presenting cells help to orient binding faces, provide protease protection, and restrict nonspecific lateral protein-protein interactions. In the humoral immune system, all of the immunoglobulins and most of the complement components are glycosylated. Although a major function for sugars is to contribute to the stability of the proteins to which they are attached, specific glycoforms are involved in recognition events. For example, in rheumatoid arthritis, an autoimmune disease, agalactosylated glycoforms of aggregated immunoglobulin G may induce association with the mannose-binding lectin and contribute to the pathology."	2001	Mar-23	291	5512	2370-6	11269318	0
702	"Rudd, PM"	Glycosylation and prion protein	Curr Opin Struct Biol	"Recent advances have elucidated the detailed glycosylation of the prion protein and highlighted the size of the sugars, which shield large areas of the protein and confer some conformational stability on the normal cellular form. The reliability of SDS-PAGE banding patterns of different ""glycoforms"" as a diagnostics tool has been discussed. The possibility exists that the glycans may play a role in the location of the prion protein on the neuronal cell surface. Alternative topologies and tethering of the prion glycoprotein on the cell membrane affect glycan site occupancy and may play a role in disease pathogenesis."	2002	Oct	12	5	578-86	12464308	0
703	"Rudd, PM"	Sugar-mediated ligand-receptor interactions in the immune system	Trends Biotechnol	"Most molecules involved in the recognition and elimination of pathogens by the immune system are glycoproteins. Oligosaccharides attached to glycoproteins initiate biological functions through mechanisms that involve multiple interactions of the monosaccharide residues with receptors. For example, calreticulin, a quality-control lectin-like chaperone, interacts with glucosylated mannose glycans presented by empty major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules, retaining them in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) until antigenic peptide is loaded. Clusters of specific IgG glycoforms, present in increased amounts in rheumatoid arthritis, bind mannose-binding lectin (MBL), providing a potential route to inflammation through activation of the complement pathway. Secretory IgA glycans bind gut bacteria, and an unusual cluster of mannose residues on gp120, the surface coat protein of the HIV virus, is recognized by the novel 'domain-swapped' IgG 2G12 serum antibody."	2004	Oct	22	10	524-30	15450746	0
704	"Ruiz, NI and Drickamer, K"	Differential ligand binding by two subunits of the rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor	Glycobiology	"The rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor consists of two types of subunits, a predominant polypeptide designated rat hepatic lectin 1 (RHL-1) and a minor polypeptide, RHL-2/3, that comes in two differentially glycosylated forms. The exact stoichiometry and arrangement of the subunits in the RHL oligomer are not known. The carbohydrate-recognition domain of RHL-2/3 has been prepared by limited proteolysis of the liver receptor so that its properties can be compared with those of the corresponding domain of RHL-1 previously produced in a bacterial expression system. Binding studies indicate that while RHL-1 binds N-acetylgalactosamine with approximately 60-fold higher affinity than it binds galactose, RHL-2/3 has only 2-fold selectivity for N-acetylgalactosamine. In general, the pattern of monosaccharide-binding specificity for RHL-2/3 is similar to RHL-1, but the discrimination of various sugars relative to galactose is reduced substantially. Limited proteolysis and crosslinking studies demonstrate that RHL-2/3 is easily removed from the RHL oligomer in detergent solution and that RHL-1 remains at least trimeric following removal of RHL-2/3. These studies suggest that RHL-1 forms a ligand-binding core while RHL-2/3 acts more as an accessory subunit contributing to selective binding of certain oligosaccharide structures."	1996	Jul	6	5	551-9	8877376	0
705	"Russell, KJ"	Photon versus fast neutron external beam radiotherapy in the treatment of locally advanced prostate cancer: results of a randomized prospective trial	Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys	"PURPOSE: To evaluate the effectiveness of fast neutron radiation therapy in treatment of locally advanced carcinomas of the prostate. METHODS AND MATERIALS: From April 1986 to October 1990, 178 patients were entered on a prospective, multi-institutional randomized study of the NCI-sponsored Neutron Therapy Collaborative Working Group. This trial compared external beam photon irradiation (7000-7020 cGy) with external beam neutron irradiation (2040 ncGy) for patients with high-grade T2 or T3-4, N0-1, M0 adenocarcinomas of the prostate. Eighty-nine patients were randomized to each treatment. Six patients were subsequently judged to be ineligible, leaving 85 photon and 87 neutron randomized patients eligible for analysis. RESULTS: With a follow-up time ranging from 40 to 86 months (68 months median follow-up) the 5-year actuarial clinical local-regional failure rate for patients treated with neutrons was 11%, vs. 32% for photons (p < 0.01). Incorporating the results of routine posttreatment prostate biopsies, the resulting ""histological"" local-regional tumor failure rates were 13% for neutrons vs. 32% for photons (p = 0.01). To date, actuarial survival and cause-specific survival rates are statistically indistinguishable for the two patient cohorts, with 32% of the neutron-treated patient deaths and 41% of the photon-treated patient deaths caused by prostate cancer (p = n.s.). Prostate specific antigen (PSA) values were elevated in 17% of neutron-treated patients and 45% of photon-treated patients at 5 years (p < 0.001). Severe late complications of treatment were higher for the neutron-treated patients (11% vs. 3%), and were inversely correlated with the degree of neutron beam shaping available at the participating institutions. Neutron treatment delivery utilizing a fully rotational gantry and multileaf collimator did not result in an increase in severe late effects when compared to photon treatment. CONCLUSION: High energy fast neutron radiotherapy is safe and effective when adequate beam delivery systems and collimation are available, and it is significantly superior to external beam photon radiotherapy in the local-regional treatment of large prostate tumors."	1994	Jan-01	28	1	47-54	8270459	0
706	"Sacco, G"	The primary structure of the cytotoxin alpha-sarcin	J Biol Chem	"The primary structure of the cytotoxin alpha-sarcin was determined. Eighteen of the 19 tryptic peptides were purified; the other peptide has arginine only. The complete sequence of 17 of the peptides was determined; the sequence of the remaining peptide was determined in part. The sequence of the 39 NH2-terminal residues was obtained by automated Edman degradation. The carboxyl-terminal amino acids were identified after carboxypeptidase treatment. The assignment of the amino acids in the tryptic peptides was confirmed and their alignment established from the sequence of the secondary tryptic peptides obtained after cleavage of citraconylated alpha-sarcin, from the sequence of a 2-(2-nitrophenylsulfenyl)-3-methyl-3'-bromoindolenine peptide, from the sequence of a chymotryptic peptide, and from the sequence of a peptide obtained with Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease. alpha-Sarcin contains 150 amino acid residues; the molecular weight is 16,987. There are disulfide bridges between cysteine residues at positions 6 and 148 and between residues 76 and 132."	1983	May-10	258	9	5811-8	6343394	0
707	"Saito, T"	Some structural features of the iron-uptake regulation protein	Eur J Biochem	"An extensive proton nuclear magnetic resonance study of the iron-uptake regulation protein (Fur) from Escherichia coli has been made. Considerable difficulties were experienced in the NMR experiments in 1H2O which may be due unfavourable proton exchange rates in the pH range greater than 6.2, where the protein is soluble. Even in 2H2O, the two-dimensional NMR spectra were not easily interpreted due to widely differing line widths, as a result of the protein side-chains having very differing mobilities. Despite these problems, virtually all the 20 aromatic amino acids have been assigned. Small regions of the protein core were assigned by taking advantage of the approximately 20 non-exchanging peptide-NH resonances in 2H2O. Using two-dimensional J-correlated, homonuclear Hartmann-Hahn and NOE spectroscopies, we have been able to give some assignments in which there is considerable confidence for about one third of the amino acids. Taking advantages of two series of probe experiments, using Mn(II) and a spin label, together with longer range NOE data and result from structure predictions and CD data, we have put forward a tentative fold for the protein which is seen to have a relatively rigid series of interior strands and more flexible exterior strands, many of which are likely to be helical. The Mn(II) probe experiments have also allowed us to define the Fe(II) binding site."	1991	Apr-10	197	1	29-38	1849822	0
708	"Saleque, S"	Expression and characterization of a carbohydrate-binding fragment of rat aggrecan	Glycobiology	"The COOH-terminal portion of cartilage proteoglycan core protein, aggrecan, expressed by in vitro translation, binds carbohydrate-containing affinity columns. The in vitro expression approach has been used to define the sugar-binding portion of the core protein. The active fragment, which corresponds closely to the carbohydrate-recognition domains in the family of Ca(2+)-dependent (C-type) animal lectins, has been expressed in bacteria and characterized. The CD spectrum of the domain is very similar to the spectrum of the binding domain of serum mannose-binding protein, suggesting that its overall structure probably resembles the known three-dimensional structure of the mannose-binding domain. The binding specificity of the core protein fragment has been characterized using a solid-phase assay. The results suggest that the monosaccharide-binding site is also similar to that in other C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains."	1993	Apr	3	2	185-90	8490244	0
709	"Samara, E"	Pharmacokinetics of urinary metabolites of cannabidiol in the dog	Biopharm Drug Dispos	"The pharmacokinetics of cannabidiol (CBD) and six of its urinary metabolites was investigated in dogs. CBD was administered intravenously to three dogs, and urine was collected at specified time intervals over a period of 30 h. The apparent terminal half-life of CBD calculated from the slope of the sigma minus plot was significantly shorter (2 h) than the half-life of CBD calculated from plasma data (8 h), and the apparent terminal half-life of the metabolites was similar to that of the CBD calculated from plasma data, indicating that the elimination of these metabolites was formation rate limited. The time course of the metabolite excretion could be divided into two phases: the first phase contained mainly monohydroxy metabolites, and the second phase contained mainly metabolites with a carboxylic acid moiety in their side-chain."	1990	Dec	11	9	785-95	2271754	0
710	"Samara, E"	Identification of urinary metabolites of cannabidiol in the dog	Drug Metab Dispos	"Three dogs were treated with cannabidiol (CBD) and urine samples were collected periodically to 30 hr. Metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate before and after hydrolysis with beta-glucuronidase, and examined by GC/MS,. Thirty-seven metabolites were identified and another nine partially characterized. Twenty-one of the identified metabolites have not been reported before for this drug. The major oxidative metabolic routes were 6-hydroxylation, both alpha and beta, and beta-oxidation. At 10 hr the major metabolites of this type were 6-hydroxy-4'',5''-bis,nor-CBD-3''-oic acid and 6-oxo-4'',5''-bis,nor-CBD-3''-oic acid, whereas at 22 hr, further beta-oxidation had occurred to give 6-hydroxy-2'',3'',4'',5''-tetrakis,nor-CBD-1""pr-oic acid as the major metabolite. Other metabolic routes were carboxylic acid formation at C-7 accompanied by hydroxylation in the side chain, and dihydroxylation of the C-8,9 double bond. Three compounds, 4''-hydroxy-CBD, 5''hydroxy-CBD, and 6-oxo-CBD were found at early times as glucose conjugates in concentrations that exceeded those of the other metabolites. The unconjugated forms of these metabolites were not found and none of the identified oxidized metabolites were found as glucosides. Only 4'',6-dihydroxy-CBD was found conjugated with glucuronic acid."	1990	Sep-Oct	18	5	571-9	1981704	0
711	"Samara, E"	"Microsomal metabolism of the 1"",1""-dimethylheptyl analogue of cannabidiol: relative percentage of monohydroxy metabolites in four species"	Drug Metab Dispos		1990	Jul-Aug	18	4	548-9	1976083	0
712	"Samara, E"	"Identification of metabolites of the 1"",1""-dimethylheptyl analogue of cannabidiol in rat and dog in vivo"	Xenobiotica	"1. Metabolism of the 1"",1""-dimethylheptyl analogue of cannabidiol (DMH-CBD) was studied using an isolated perfused rat liver preparation and in rat and dog urine. 2. Metabolites were identified using g.l.c.-mass spectrometry of the trimethylsilyl (TMS), methyl ester/TMS and [2H9]TMS derivatives. 3. In contrast with the metabolism of cannabidiol, the dimethylheptyl analogue gave low concentrations of metabolites in all media examined. 4. Four metabolites were found in the perfusion fluid. Two were identified as 6- and 7-hydroxy-DMH-CBD and the other two were found to be hydroxylated in the dimethylheptyl chain but at undetermined positions. 5. Five metabolites were identified in dog urine; these were the 6- and 7-mono-hydroxy and 6,7-dihydroxy derivatives of acids formed by one stage of beta-oxidation of the dimethylheptyl chain, and the 6- and 7-hydroxy derivatives of corresponding acids formed by loss of three carbon atoms from the chain. 6. Metabolic routes were very similar to those found earlier for cannabidiol."	1990	May	20	5	447-55	2349804	0
713	"Samara, E"	Identification of glucose conjugates as major urinary metabolites of cannabidiol in the dog	Xenobiotica	"1. Three dogs were treated i.v. with cannabidiol (CBD) and urine collected at intervals to 30 h. 2. Metabolites were extracted, converted into trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatives and examined by g.l.c.-mass spectrometry. 3. The major metabolites excreted at early times were identified as the phenol glucosides of 4""-hydroxy-CBD, 5""-hydroxy-CBD and 6-oxo-CBD. 4. These three oxidized metabolites were not found unconjugated, and none of the free oxidized metabolites in urine were found conjugated with glucose. 5. The conjugates were hydrolysed by beta-glucuronidase Type HP-2 from Helix pomatia and acid phosphatase but not by beta-glucuronidase Type VII from E. coli. Differential reactivity towards alpha- and beta-glucosidase indicated that they possessed the beta-configuration."	1990	Feb	20	2	177-83	2333714	0
714	"Samara, E"	Metabolism of cannabidiol by the rat	Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet	"Metabolites of CBD excreted into the bile and perfusion fluid were examined in a rat liver perfusion preparation. Metabolites were extracted with ethyl acetate and identified by GC/MS as TMS derivatives. Four mono- and five di-hydroxy metabolites were identified with major sites of metabolic attack being at C-7 and C-4"". A hydroxy-ketone was detected but not fully identified. All biliary metabolites were conjugated with glucuronic acid. Urinary metabolites were studied in rats with samples taken at times to 25 h after drug administration. Unmetabolized CBD and 13 metabolites were identified by GC/MS. Major metabolites were acids with beta-oxidation being a prominent pathway. The 6- and 7-hydroxy derivatives of 4"",5""-bis,nor-CBD-3""-oic acid were the most abundant compounds but substantial concentrations of the di-acids, CBD-5"",7-dioic acid and 4"",5""-bis,nor-CBD-3"",7-dioic acid were present. Concentrations of the more highly oxidized metabolites increased with time."	1991	Oct-Dec	16	4	305-13	1823875	0
715	"Sano, A"	Uptake and processing of glycoproteins by isolated rat hepatic endothelial and Kupffer cells	J Hepatol	"Mannose-(Man) and N-acetylglucosamine- (GlcNAc)-terminated glycoproteins are cleared from blood by carbohydrate-specific receptors present on both hepatic endothelial and Kupffer cells. It is not known whether the same receptors are present on each cell type or the relative contributions to glycoprotein metabolism made by Kupffer and endothelial cells. Here we report experiments where data from glycoprotein metabolism by purified populations of isolated rat hepatic endothelial and Kupffer cells have been analyzed by mathematical modelling and parameter estimation. Kupffer cells had significantly higher binding rate constants (k'21) than endothelial cells for agalactoorosomucoid (AGOR) and hyaluronidase, but lower k12 ('off-rate') indicating that Kupffer cells had higher affinities for Man/GlcNAc-terminated glycoproteins than endothelial receptors. Furthermore, although endothelial cells had similar affinities (k'21 and k12) for AGOR and hyaluronidase, the 'off-rate' of Kupffer cells was significantly greater for AGOR than for hyaluronidase, indicating that Kupffer cell receptors have lower affinity for AGOR. Internalization and ligand catabolic rates also differed between the two cell types. The data indicate that Kupffer and endothelial cells appear to have different Man/GlcNAc receptors and that the destination of a glycoprotein and its subsequent processing is determined by the structure of a glycoprotein's oligosaccharide."	1990	Mar	10	2	211-6	2332592	0
716	"Saphire, EO"	Crystal structure of a neutralizing human IGG against HIV-1: a template for vaccine design	Science	"We present the crystal structure at 2.7 angstrom resolution of the human antibody IgG1 b12. Antibody b12 recognizes the CD4-binding site of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) gp120 and is one of only two known antibodies against gp120 capable of broad and potent neutralization of primary HIV-1 isolates. A key feature of the antibody-combining site is the protruding, finger-like long CDR H3 that can penetrate the recessed CD4-binding site of gp120. A docking model of b12 and gp120 reveals severe structural constraints that explain the extraordinary challenge in eliciting effective neutralizing antibodies similar to b12. The structure, together with mutagenesis studies, provides a rationale for the extensive cross-reactivity of b12 and a valuable framework for the design of HIV-1 vaccines capable of eliciting b12-like activity."	2001	Aug-10	293	5532	1155-9	11498595	0
717	"Saphire, EO"	Contrasting IgG structures reveal extreme asymmetry and flexibility	J Mol Biol	"The crystal structure of IgG1 b12 represents the first visualization of an intact human IgG with a full-length hinge that has all domains ordered and visible. In comparison to intact murine antibodies and hinge-deletant human antibodies, b12 reveals extreme asymmetry, indicative of the extraordinary interdomain flexibility within an antibody. In addition, the structure provides an illustration of the human IgG1 hinge in its entirety and of asymmetry in the composition of the carbohydrate attached to each C(H)2 domain of the Fc. The two separate hinges assume different conformations in order to accommodate the vastly different placements of the two Fab domains relative to the Fc domain. Interestingly, only one of two possible intra-hinge disulfides is formed."	2002	May-24	319	1	Sep-18	12051932	0
718	"Saphire, EO"	"Crystal structure of an intact human IgG: antibody asymmetry, flexibility, and a guide for HIV-1 vaccine design"	Adv Exp Med Biol		2003		535		55-66	14714888	0
719	"Saudek, V"	Identification and description of beta-structure in horse muscle acylphosphatase by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy	J Mol Biol	"Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra of acylphosphatase were searched for signs of beta-structure, i.e. characteristic nuclear Overhauser enhancement patterns displayed in the two-dimensional spectra, typical chemical shifts, coupling constants and slow 2H-H exchange. The results provided identification of the main-chain resonances of amino acid residues involved in the beta-structure. The full sequential assignment of this region was gained by identification of some amino acid spin systems and their alignment with the primary sequence. The assignment of the side-chains was virtually completed subsequently and a list produced of nuclear magnetic resonance (n.m.r.) constraints derived from the spectra. The beta-structure consists of a beta-sheet with four antiparallel chains, one attached parallel chain, three tight turns and a beta-bulge. The conformation of the beta-sheet was determined by distance geometry calculation using the n.m.r. constraints (174 intraresidual, 107 sequential and 226 long-range distances, 32 torsion angles, phi, and 28 hydrogen bonds) as input. Observation of some interactions between the sheet and previously identified alpha-helical regions made it possible to give an outline of the three-dimensional structure of the enzyme."	1989	May-20	207	2	405-15	2547076	0
720	"Scanlan, CN"	The broadly neutralizing anti-human immunodeficiency virus type 1 antibody 2G12 recognizes a cluster of alpha1-->2 mannose residues on the outer face of gp120	J Virol	"2G12 is a broadly neutralizing human monoclonal antibody against human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) that has previously been shown to bind to a carbohydrate-dependent epitope on gp120. Here, site-directed mutagenesis and carbohydrate analysis were used to define further the 2G12 epitope. Extensive alanine scanning mutagenesis showed that elimination of the N-linked carbohydrate attachment sequences associated with residues N295, N332, N339, N386, and N392 by N-->A substitution produced significant decreases in 2G12 binding affinity to gp120(JR-CSF). Further mutagenesis suggested that the glycans at N339 and N386 were not critical for 2G12 binding to gp120(JR-CSF). Comparison of the sequences of isolates neutralized by 2G12 was also consistent with a lesser role for glycans attached at these positions. The mutagenesis studies provided no convincing evidence for the involvement of gp120 amino acid side chains in 2G12 binding. Antibody binding was inhibited when gp120 was treated with Aspergillus saitoi mannosidase, Jack Bean mannosidase, or endoglycosidase H, indicating that Man(alpha)1-->2Man-linked sugars of oligomannose glycans on gp120 are required for 2G12 binding. Consistent with this finding, the binding of 2G12 to gp120 could be inhibited by monomeric mannose but not by galactose, glucose, or N-acetylglucosamine. The inability of 2G12 to bind to gp120 produced in the presence of the glucose analogue N-butyl-deoxynojirimycin similarly implicated Man(alpha)1-->2Man-linked sugars in 2G12 binding. Competition experiments between 2G12 and the lectin cyanovirin for binding to gp120 showed that 2G12 only interacts with a subset of available Man(alpha)1-->2Man-linked sugars. Consideration of all the data, together with inspection of a molecular model of gp120, suggests that the most likely epitope for 2G12 is formed from mannose residues contributed by the glycans attached to N295 and N332, with the other glycans playing an indirect role in maintaining epitope conformation."	2002	Jul	76	14	7306-21	12072529	0
721	"Scanlan, CN"	The carbohydrate epitope of the neutralizing anti-HIV-1 antibody 2G12	Adv Exp Med Biol		2003		535		205-18	14714897	0
722	"Schwegler, EE"	SELDI-TOF MS profiling of serum for detection of the progression of chronic hepatitis C to hepatocellular carcinoma	Hepatology	"Proteomic profiling of serum is an emerging technique to identify new biomarkers indicative of disease severity and progression. The objective of our study was to assess the use of surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS) to identify multiple serum protein biomarkers for detection of liver disease progression to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). A cohort of 170 serum samples obtained from subjects in the United States with no liver disease (n = 39), liver diseases not associated with cirrhosis (n = 36), cirrhosis (n = 38), or HCC (n = 57) were applied to metal affinity protein chips for protein profiling by SELDI-TOF MS. Across the four test groups, 38 differentially expressed proteins were used to generate multiple decision classification trees to distinguish the known disease states. Analysis of a subset of samples with only hepatitis C virus (HCV)-related disease was emphasized. The serum protein profiles of control patients were readily distinguished from each HCV-associated disease state. Two-way comparisons of chronic hepatitis C, HCV cirrhosis, or HCV-HCC versus healthy had a sensitivity/specificity range of 74% to 95%. For distinguishing chronic HCV from HCV-HCC, a sensitivity of 61% and a specificity of 76% were obtained. However, when the values of known serum markers alpha fetoprotein, des-gamma carboxyprothrombin, and GP73 were combined with the SELDI peak values, the sensitivity and specifity improved to 75% and 92%, respectively. In conclusion, SELDI-TOF MS serum profiling is able to distinguish HCC from liver disease before cirrhosis as well as cirrhosis, especially in patients with HCV infection compared with other etiologies."	2005	Mar	41	3	634-42	15726646	0
723	"Scudder, P"	The isolation by ligand affinity chromatography of a novel form of alpha-L-fucosidase from almond	J Biol Chem	"An alpha-fucosidase has been extracted from almond meal and purified 163,000-fold to apparent homogeneity using a novel affinity ligand, N-(5-carboxy-1-pentyl)-1,5-dideoxy-1,5-imino-L-fucitol, coupled to Affi-Gel 102. Substrate specificity studies demonstrate that the enzyme hydrolyzes the alpha-fucosidic linkages in Gal(beta 1----3)(Fuc(alpha 1----4]GlcNAc(beta 1----3)Gal(beta 1----4)Glc and Gal(beta 1----4)(Fuc(alpha 1----3]GlcNAc(beta 1----3)Gal(beta 1----4)Glc at similar rates but is unable to hydrolyze Fuc(alpha 1----2)Gal, Fuc(alpha 1----6)GlcNAc, or the synthetic substrate, p-nitrophenyl alpha-L-fucopyranoside. Hence, the enzyme closely resembles an alpha-fucosidase I isolated previously from a commercial preparation of partially purified almond beta-glucosidase (Ogata-Arakawa, M., Muramatsu, T., and Kobata, A. (1977) Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 181, 353-358). However, native and subunit relative molecular masses of 106,000 and 54,000 respectively, different charge and hydrophobicity properties, and the absence of stimulation by NaCl clearly distinguish this enzyme, designated alpha-fucosidase III, from other almond alpha-fucosidases reported previously."	1990	Sep-25	265	27	16472-7	2398059	0
724	"Shore, DA"	Glycosylation and the function of the T cell co-receptor CD8	Adv Exp Med Biol		2005		564		71-84	16400808	0
725	"Shore, DA"	Crystal structure of the TCR co-receptor CD8alphaalpha in complex with monoclonal antibody YTS 105.18 Fab fragment at 2.88 A resolution	J Mol Biol	"The CD8 glycoprotein functions as an essential element in the control of T-cell selection, maturation and the TCR-mediated response to peptide antigen. CD8 is expressed as both heterodimeric CD8alphabeta and homodimeric CD8alphaalpha isoforms, which have distinct physiological roles and exhibit tissue-specific expression patterns. CD8alphaalpha has previously been crystallized in complex with class I pMHC and, more recently, with the mouse class Ib thymic leukemia antigen (TL). Here, we present the crystal structure of a soluble form of mouse CD8alphaalpha in complex with rat monoclonal antibody YTS 105.18 Fab fragment at 2.88 A resolution. YTS 105.18, which is commonly used in the blockade of CD8+ T-cell activation in response to peptide antigen, is specific for mouse CD8alpha. The YTS 105.18 Fab is one of only five rat IgG Fab structures to have been reported to date. Analysis of the YTS 105.18 Fab epitope on CD8alpha reveals that this antibody blocks CD8 activity by hydrogen bonding to residues that are critical for interaction with both class I pMHC and TL. Structural comparison of the liganded and unliganded forms of soluble CD8alphaalpha indicates that the mouse CD8alphaalpha immunoglobulin-domain dimer does not undergo significant structural alteration upon interaction either with class I pMHC or TL."	2006	Apr-28	358	2	347-54	16530222	0
726	"Sigurdson, AJ"	Feasibility of assessing the carcinogenicity of neutrons among neutron therapy patients	Radiat Res	"Nuclear workers, oil well loggers, astronauts, air flight crews, and frequent fliers can be exposed to low doses of neutrons, but the long-term human health consequences of neutron exposure are unknown. While few of these exposed populations are suitable for studying the effects of neutron exposure, patients treated with neutron-beam therapy might be a source of information. To assess the feasibility of conducting a multi-center international study of the late effects of neutron therapy, we surveyed 23 cancer centers that had used neutron beam therapy. For the 17 responding institutions, only 25% of the patients treated with neutrons (2,855 of 11,191) were alive more than 2 years after treatment. In a two-center U.S. pilot study of 484 neutron-treated cancer patients, we assessed the feasibility of obtaining radiotherapy records, cancer incidence and other follow-up data, and of estimating patient organ doses. Patients were treated with 42 MeV neutrons between 1972 and 1989. Applying a clinical equivalence factor of 3.2 for neutrons, total average organ doses outside the treatment beam ranged from 0.14 to 0.29 Gy for thyroid, 0.40 to 2.50 Gy for breast, 0.63 to 2.35 Gy for kidney, and 1.12 to 1.76 Gy for active bone marrow depending upon the primary cancer treatment site. We successfully traced 97% of the patients, but we found that patient survival was poor and that chemotherapy was not confirmable in a quarter of the patients. Based on our findings from the international survey and the feasibility study, we conclude that a large investigation could detect a fivefold or higher leukemia risk, but would be inadequate to evaluate the risk of solid cancers with long latent periods and therefore would likely not be informative with respect to neutron-related cancer risk in humans."	2002	Apr	157	4	483-9	11893253	0
727	"Sillence, DJ"	Assay for the transbilayer distribution of glycolipids. Selective oxidation of glucosylceramide to glucuronylceramide by TEMPO nitroxyl radicals	J Lipid Res	"In the present study, 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidinooxy nitroxide (TEMPO) has been applied successfully to discriminate between glucosylceramide in the outer and inner leaflets of closed membrane bilayers. The nitroxyl radicals TEMPO and carboxy-TEMPO, once oxidized to nitrosonium ions, are capable of oxidizing residues that contain primary hydroxyl and amino groups. When applied to radiolabeled glucosylceramide in liposomes, oxidation with TEMPO led to an oxidized product that was easily separated from the original lipid by thin-layer chromatography, and that was identified by mass spectrometric analysis as the corresponding acid glucuronylceramide. To test whether oxidation was confined to the external leaflet, TEMPO was applied to large unilamellar vesicles (LUVs) consisting of egg phosphatidylcholine- egg phosphatidylethanolamine;-cholesterol 55:5:40 (mol/mol). TEMPO oxidized most radiolabeled phosphatidylethanolamine, whereas carboxy-TEMPO oxidized only half. Hydrolysis by phospholipase A(2) confirmed that 50% of the phosphatidylethanolamine was accessible in the external bilayer leaflet, suggesting that TEMPO penetrated the lipid bilayer and carboxy-TEMPO did not. When applied to LUVs containing <1 mol% radiolabeled glucosylceramide or short-chain C(6)-glucosylceramide, carboxy-TEMPO oxidized half the glucosylceramide. However, if surface C(6)-glucosylceramide was first depleted by bovine serum albumin (BSA) (extracting 49 +/- 1%), 94% of the remaining C(6)-glucosylceramide was resistant to oxidation. Carboxy-TEMPO oxidized glucosylceramide on the surface of LUVs without affecting inner leaflet glucosylceramide. At pH 9.5 and at 0 degrees C, the reaction reached completion by 20 min."	2000	Aug	41	8	1252-60	10946013	0
728	"Sillence, DJ"	Glucosylceramide modulates membrane traffic along the endocytic pathway	J Lipid Res	"Glycosphingolipids are endocytosed and targeted to the Golgi apparatus, but are mistargeted to lysosomes in numerous sphingolipidoses. Substrate reduction therapy utilizes imino sugars to inhibit glucosylceramide synthase and potentially abrogate the effects of storage. Gaucher disease is a hereditary deficiency in glucocerebrosidase leading to glucosylceramide accumulation; however, Gaucher fibroblasts exhibited normal Golgi transport of lactosylceramide. To better understand the effects of glycosphingolipid accumulation on intracellular trafficking and the use of imino sugar inhibitors, we studied sphingolipid endocytosis in fibroblast and macrophage models for Gaucher disease. Treatment of fibroblasts or RAW macrophages with conduritol B epoxide, an inhibitor of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase, resulted in a change in the endocytic targeting of lactosylceramide from the Golgi to the lysosomes. Co-treatment of macrophages with conduritol B-epoxide and 12-25 microM N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin, an inhibitor of glycosphingolipid biosynthesis, prevented the mistargeting of lactosylceramide to the lysosomes and restored trafficking to the Golgi. Surprisingly, higher doses (>25 microM) of NB-DGJ induced targeting of lactosylceramide to the lysosomes, even in the absence of conduritol B-epoxide. These data demonstrate that both increases and decreases in glucosylceramide levels can dramatically alter the endocytic targeting of lactosylceramide and suggest a role for glucosylceramide in regulation of membrane transport."	2002	Nov	43	11	1837-45	12401882	0
729	"Sillence, DJ and Platt, FM"	Storage diseases: new insights into sphingolipid functions	Trends Cell Biol	"Studying human diseases can help us to uncover important processes in normal cells. Cell biologists have recently focused on inherited sphingolipid-storage diseases. Eukaryotic life is characterized by internal membranes of various compositions, and sphingolipids are a small but important part of these membranes. Compositional differences between cellular membranes are maintained by sorting and sphingolipids are thought to organize this process by forming ordered domains of increased thickness in the bilayer. Here, we describe the impact of sphingolipid accumulation on the sorting of endocytic membranes and discuss the proposed basis for the pathology of these diseases at the cellular level."	2003	Apr	13	4	195-203	12667757	0
730	"Sillence, DJ and Platt, FM"	Glycosphingolipids in endocytic membrane transport	Semin Cell Dev Biol	"Endocytosis leads to the internalisation of both lipids and proteins and their delivery to specific subcellular locations. This involves sorting processes that are not completely understood, but may involve interactions between lipids and proteins as well as pH and calcium gradients. This article discusses the importance of endocytosis in glycosphingolipid (GSL) synthesis as well as the potential roles of GSLs in endocytic membrane transport. Although the accumulation of GSLs in storage diseases clearly disrupts endocytic transport, increasing evidence also supports a role for GSLs in endocytosis in normal cells."	2004	Aug	15	4	409-16	15207831	0
731	"Sillence, DJ and Platt, FM"	Introduction: Glycosphingolipids in cell biology and disease	Semin Cell Dev Biol		2004	Aug	15	4	371-3	15207827	0
732	"Simpson, SD"	Short chain oligogalacturonides induce ethylene production and expression of the gene encoding aminocyclopropane 1-carboxylic acid oxidase in tomato plants	Glycobiology	"Oligogalacturonic acids (OGAs), derived from plant cell wall pectin, have been implicated in a number of signal transduction pathways involved in growth, development and defense responses of higher plants. This study investigates the size range of OGAs capable of inducing ethylene synthesis in tomato plants, and demonstrates that in contrast with many other effects, only short chain OGAs are active. Oligomers across a range of DP from 2-15 were separated and purified to homogeneity by QAE-Sephadex anion exchange chromatography using a novel elution system. The OGAs were applied to tomato plants and assayed for their ability to induce ethylene gas release and changes in steady state levels of mRNA encoding the ethylene forming enzyme aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid oxidase (ACO). The study demonstrated that only OGAs in the size range of DP4-6 were active both in eliciting ACO expression and in the production of ethylene."	1998	Jun	8	6	579-83	9592124	0
733	"Simpson, DZ"	Multiple interactions between pituitary hormones and the mannose receptor	Biochem J	"The macrophage mannose receptor, which has a well-documented role in the innate immune system, has an additional function in the clearance of pituitary hormones. Clearance is mediated by the recognition of sulphated terminal N-acetylgalactosamine residues (SO(4)-4GalNAc) on the hormones. Previous studies with an SO(4)-4GalNAc-containing neoglycoprotein suggest that the SO(4)-4GalNAc-binding site is localized to the N-terminal cysteine-rich domain of the receptor, distinct from the mannose/N-acetylglucosamine/fucose-specific C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains (CRDs). The present study characterizes the binding of natural pituitary hormone ligands to a soluble portion of the mannose receptor consisting of the whole extracellular domain and to a truncated form containing the eight CRDs but lacking the N-terminal cysteine-rich domain and the fibronectin type II repeat. Both forms of the receptor show high-affinity saturable binding of lutropin and thyrotropin. Binding to the full-length receptor is dependent on pH and ionic strength and is inhibited effectively by SO(4)-4GalNAc but only partly by mannose. In contrast, binding to the truncated form of the receptor, which is also dependent on pH and ionic strength, is inhibited by mannose but not by SO(4)-4GalNAc. The results are consistent with the presence of an SO(4)-4GalNAc-specific binding site in the cysteine-rich domain of the mannose receptor but indicate that interactions between other sugars on the hormones and the CRDs are also important in hormone binding."	1999	Oct-15	343 Pt 2		403-11	10510307	0
734	"Simpson, MA"	Infantile-onset symptomatic epilepsy syndrome caused by a homozygous loss-of-function mutation of GM3 synthase	Nat Genet	"We identified an autosomal recessive infantile-onset symptomatic epilepsy syndrome associated with developmental stagnation and blindness. Assuming a founder effect in a large Old Order Amish pedigree, we carried out a genome-wide screen for linkage and identified a single region of homozygosity on chromosome 2p12-p11.2 spanning 5.1 cM (maximum lod score of 6.84). We sequenced genes in the region and identified a nonsense mutation in SIAT9, which is predicted to result in the premature termination of the GM3 synthase enzyme (also called lactosylceramide alpha-2,3 sialyltransferase). GM3 synthase is a member of the sialyltransferase family and catalyzes the initial step in the biosynthesis of most complex gangliosides from lactosylceramide. Biochemical analysis of plasma glycosphingolipids confirmed that affected individuals lack GM3 synthase activity, as marked by a complete lack of GM3 ganglioside and its biosynthetic derivatives and an increase in lactosylceramide and its alternative derivatives. Although the relationship between defects in ganglioside catabolism and a range of lysosomal storage diseases is well documented, this is the first report, to our knowledge, of a disruption of ganglioside biosynthesis associated with human disease."	2004	Nov	36	11	1225-9	15502825	0
735	"Simsek, E"	Hepatitis B virus large and middle glycoproteins are degraded by a proteasome pathway in glucosidase-inhibited cells but not in cells with functional glucosidase enzyme	J Virol	"The secretion of hepatitis B virus (HBV) large (LHBs) and middle (MHBs) envelope polypeptides from tissue cultures requires proper protein folding and is prevented by inhibitors of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) glucosidase. Using competitive inhibitors of the ER glucosidase, here it is shown that the amounts of glycosylated and unglycosylated forms of LHBs and MHBs proteins are all greatly reduced in tissue cultures producing HBV envelope glycoproteins. In contrast, the HBV small (SHBs) protein was not affected. The reduction in secretion of LHBs and MHBs proteins appears to be mediated by proteasomal degradation pathways, since it is prevented by either lactacystin or epoxomicin, two inhibitors of proteasomal degradation. Although there is no detectable proteasomal degradation of LHBs and MHBs in cells with functional glucosidase, the implications of the nearly quantitative sensitivity of glycosylated and unglycosylated forms of LHBs and MHBs proteins, with selective sparing of SHBs protein, in cells in which glucosidase is inhibited is surprising, and its implications are discussed."	2005	Oct	79	20	12914-20	16188993	0
736	"Smith, DC"	The association of Shiga-like toxin with detergent-resistant membranes is modulated by glucosylceramide and is an essential requirement in the endoplasmic reticulum for a cytotoxic effect	Mol Biol Cell	"Receptor-mediated internalization to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and subsequent retro-translocation to the cytosol are essential sequential processes required for the productive intoxication of susceptible mammalian cells by Shiga-like toxin-1 (SLTx). Recently, it has been proposed that the observed association of certain ER-directed toxins and viruses with detergent-resistant membranes (DRM) may provide a general mechanism for their retrograde transport to endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here, we show that DRM recruitment of SLTx bound to its globotriosylceramide (Gb(3)) receptor is mediated by the availability of other glycosphingolipids. Reduction in glucosylceramide (GlcCer) levels led to complete protection against SLTx and a reduced cell surface association of bound toxin with DRM. This reduction still allowed efficient binding and transport of the toxin to the ER. However, toxin sequestration within DRM of the ER was abolished under reduced GlcCer conditions, suggesting that an association of toxin with lipid microdomains or rafts in the ER (where these are defined by detergent insolubility) is essential for a later step leading to or involving retro-translocation of SLTx across the ER membrane. In support of this, we show that a number of ER residents, proteins intimately involved in the process of ER dislocation of misfolded proteins, are present in DRM."	2006	Mar	17	3	1375-87	16381816	0
737	"Solin, LJ"	"Mammographically Detected, Clinically Occult Ductal Carcinoma In Situ Treated With Breast-Conserving Surgery and Definitive Breast Irradiation"	Cancer J Sci Am	"PURPOSE: Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is increasingly detected as a nonpalpable lesion on mammographic screening performed for the early detection of breast cancer. Because of the growing incidence of mammographically detected DCIS, the present study was undertaken to determine the outcome of treatment of nonpalpable, mammographically detected intraductal carcinoma of the breast using breast-conserving surgery and definitive breast irradiation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: An analysis was performed of 110 women who presented with unilateral, nonpalpable, mammographically detected intraductal carcinoma of the breast and who were treated with breast-conserving surgery and definitive breast irradiation at 10 institutions in Europe and the United States. In all patients, complete gross excision of the primary tumor was performed, and breast irradiation was delivered with definitive intent. When performed, pathologic axillary lymph node staging was node negative (n = 29). The median follow-up time was 9.3 years. RESULTS: The 10-year actuarial overall survival rate was 93%, and the 10-year actuarial cause-specific survival rate was 96%. The 10-year actuarial rate of freedom from distant metastases was 96%. There were 15 local recurrences in the treated breast. The actuarial rate of local failure was 7% at 5 years and 14% at 10 years. The histology of the local recurrence was intraductal carcinoma in 9 cases and invasive ductal carcinoma (with or without associated intraductal carcinoma) in 6 cases. The median time to local recurrence was 5.0 years (mean, 5.4; range, 2.1-15.2). With a median follow-up time of 4.4 years after salvage treatment, 14 of the 15 patients with local recurrence were alive without evidence of disease at the time of last follow-up examination. The crude incidence of local recurrence was 7% (3/42) when the final pathology margin of tumor excision was negative, 29% (5/17) when the margin was close or positive, and 14% (7/51) when the margin was unknown. There was no difference in the rate of local recurrence based on pathologic characteristics of the primary tumor. DISCUSSION: Results from the present study demonstrate high rates of overall survival, cause-specific survival, and freedom from distant metastases at 10 years following the treatment of nonpalpable, mammographically detected DCIS of the breast using breast-conserving surgery and definitive breast irradiation. Local recurrences within the treated breast were detected early and were treated with salvage for cure. These results support the initial treatment of nonpalpable, mammographically detected DCIS of the breast using breast-conserving surgery and definitive breast irradiation. Improvements in patient selection have the potential to reduce the risk of local recurrence."	1996	May	2	3	158	9166516	0
738	"Soltani, K"	Preservation of specific fluorescence by sealing with nail polish	J Invest Dermatol	"Semipermanent mounting media and postfixation of immunofluorescence (IF) slides in alcohol have been effective in preserving specific fluorescence (SF). In the present study the efficacy of such mounting was compared with a simpler technique of sealing the routinely mounted IF slides with nail polish. Frozen sections of skin lesions of systemic lupus erythematosus and lichen planus, and patients' sera known to have pemphigus or pemphigoid antibodies were used for IF procedures. SF was equally detectable with both techniques for over 8 months. Control slides similarly processed but not sealed lost most of their SF within a few weeks."	1976	May	66	5	332	774997	0
739	"St Pierre, RW and Taylor, ME"	The role of women's health in health education	Health Educ		1988	Apr-May	19	2	39-41	3152220	0
740	"Stamatoglou, SC"	Identification of a novel glycoprotein (AGp110) involved in interactions of rat liver parenchymal cells with fibronectin	J Cell Biol	"We have identified an integral membrane glycoprotein in rat liver that mediates adhesion of cultured hepatocytes on fibronectin substrata. The protein was isolated by affinity chromatography of detergent extracts on wheat germ lectin-Agarose followed by chromatography of the WGA binding fraction on fibronectin-Sepharose. The glycoprotein (AGp110), eluted at high salt concentrations from the fibronectin column, has a molecular mass of 110 kD and a pI of 4.2. Binding of immobilized AGp110 to soluble rat plasma fibronectin required Ca2+ ions but was not inhibited by RGD peptides. Fab' fragments of immunoglobulins raised in rabbits against AGp110 reversed the spreading of primary hepatocytes attached onto fibronectin-coated substrata, but had no effect on cells spread on type IV collagen or laminin substrata. The effect of the antiserum on cell spreading was reversible. AGp110 was detected by immunofluorescence around the periphery of the ventral surface of substratum attached hepatocytes, and scattered on the dorsal surface. Immunohistochemical evidence and Western blotting of fractionated liver plasma membranes indicated a bile canalicular (apical) localization of AGp110 in the liver parenchyma. Expression of AGp110 is tissue specific: it was found mainly in liver, kidney, pancreas, and small intestine but was not detected in stomach, skeletal muscle, heart, and large intestine. AGp110 could be labeled by lactoperoxidase-catalyzed surface iodination of intact liver cells and, after phase partitioning of liver plasma membranes with the detergent Triton X-114, it was preferentially distributed in the hydrophobic phase. Treatment with glycosidases indicated extensive sialic acid substitution in at least 10 O-linked carbohydrate chains and 1-2 N-linked glycans. Immunological comparisons suggest that AGp110, the integrin fibronectin receptor and dipeptidyl peptidase IV, an enzyme involved in fibronectin-mediated adhesion of hepatocytes on collagen, are distinct proteins."	1990	Nov	111	5 Pt 1	2117-27	2229188	0
741	"Stambach, NS and Taylor, ME"	"Characterization of carbohydrate recognition by langerin, a C-type lectin of Langerhans cells"	Glycobiology	"Langerin is a type II transmembrane cell surface receptor found on Langerhans cells. The extracellular domain of langerin consists of a neck region containing a series of heptad repeats and a C-terminal C-type carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD). A role for langerin in processing of glycoprotein antigens has been proposed, but until now there has been little study of the langerin protein. In this study, analytical ultracentrifugation and circular dichroism spectroscopy of recombinant soluble fragments of human langerin have been used to show that the extracellular region of this receptor exists as a stable trimer held together by a coiled coil of alpha-helices formed by the neck region. The langerin CRD shows specificity for mannose, GlcNAc, and fucose, but only the trimeric extracellular domain fragment binds to glycoprotein ligands. Langerin extracellular domain binds mammalian high mannose oligosaccharides, as well mannose-containing structures on yeast invertase but does not bind complex glycan structures. Full-length langerin stably expressed in rat fibroblast transfectants mediates efficient uptake and degradation of a mannosylated neoglycoprotein ligand. pH-dependent ligand release appears to involve interactions between the CRDs or between the CRDs and the neck region in the trimer. The results are consistent with a role for langerin in internalization of both self and nonself glycoprotein antigens."	2003	May	13	5	401-10	12626394	0
742	"Steel, GJ"	Biochemical analysis of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae SEC18 gene product: implications for the molecular mechanism of membrane fusion	Biochemistry	"The SEC18 gene product is 48% identical to mammalian NSF (N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein), and both proteins encode cytoplasmic ATPases which are essential for membrane traffic in yeast and mammalian cells, respectively. A wealth of biochemical analysis has led to the description of a model for the action of NSF; through its interaction with SNAPs (soluble NSF attachment proteins), NSF can associate with SNAP receptors (SNAREs) on intracellular membranes, forming 20S complexes. SNAPs then stimulate the intrinsic ATPase activity of NSF, leading to the disassembly of the 20S complex, which is essential for subsequent membrane fusion. Although this model is based almost entirely on in vitro studies of the original clones of NSF and alpha-SNAP, it is nevertheless widely assumed that this mechanism of membrane fusion is conserved in all eukaryotic cells. If so, the crucial biochemical properties of NSF and SNAPs should be shared by their yeast homologues, Sec18p and Sec17p. Using purified recombinant proteins, we report here that Sec18p can specifically interact not only with Sec17p but also with its mammalian homologue, alpha-SNAP. This interaction leads to a stimulation of Sec18p D1 domain ATPase activity, with kinetics similar to those of alpha-SNAP stimulation of NSF, although differences in temperature and N-ethylmaleimide sensitivity were observed between NSF and Sec18p. Furthermore, Sec18p can interact with synaptic SNARE proteins and can synergize with alpha-SNAP to stimulate regulated exocytosis in mammalian cells. We conclude that the mechanistic properties of NSF and SNAPs are shared by Sec18p and Sec17p, thus demonstrating that the biochemistry of membrane fusion is conserved from yeast to mammals."	1999	Jun-15	38	24	7764-72	10387016	0
743	"Steel, LF"	A strategy for the comparative analysis of serum proteomes for the discovery of biomarkers for hepatocellular carcinoma	Proteomics	"Many of the emerging technologies for the global evaluation of gene expression, at both the RNA and protein level, are being applied to the problem of finding biomarkers for human disease progression. These analyses can be made difficult, however, by variation between samples that arises from both technical and nondisease related physiological or genetic causes. In an effort to identify serum polypeptides whose presence or absence correlates with the clinical status of patients at high risk for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), we have developed a strategy that helps to focus the analysis on meaningful changes in protein levels above the background of variation. For the current study we divided the patient population into four clinically defined diagnostic groups that represent a generally increasing risk for HCC. Chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a major risk factor for HCC and our groups included patients with no indication of liver disease (healthy), those with inactive chronic HBV, those with active chronic HBV, and patients with a diagnosis of HCC and history of chronic HBV infection. Serum polypeptides from these patients were first analyzed in two-dimensional gels by combining the serum from patients in each of the four groups to generate composite gel profiles. Analysis of these composite gels allowed us to identify two relatively abundant features that were reduced in the HCC group as compared to the healthy group. Tryptic fragment mass fingerprinting identified the features as a carboxy terminal fragment of complement C3 and an isoform of apolipoprotein A1. These two features were examined by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of serum from each individual in the four groups in order to verify that the inter-group differences seen in composite gels reported changes in abundance for most members of the group, rather than extreme changes for a small fraction of the group. These preliminary studies suggest that a proteomic methodology can be used for the identification of serum biomarkers for HCC and other liver disease."	2003	May	3	5	601-9	12748940	494
744	"Su, YH"	Human corneal cells and other fibroblasts can stimulate the appearance of herpes simplex virus from quiescently infected PC12 cells	J Virol	"A two-cell system for the stimulation of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) from an in vitro model of long-term (quiescent) infection is described. Rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells differentiated with nerve growth factor were infected with HSV-1 strain 17. Little, if any, cytotoxicity was observed, and a quiescent infection was established. The long-term infection was characterized by the absence of all detectable virus in the culture medium and little, if any, detectable early or late viral-gene expression as determined by reverse transcriptase PCR analysis. The presence of HSV-1 DNA was determined by PCR analysis. This showed that approximately 180 viral genomes were present in limiting dilutions where as few as 16 cells were examined. The viral DNA was infectious, since cocultivation with human corneal fibroblasts (HCF) or human corneal epithelial cells (HCE) resulted in recovery of virus from most, if not all, clusters of PC12 cells. Following cocultivation, viral antigens appeared first on PC12 cells and then on neighboring inducing cells, as determined by immunofluorescent staining, demonstrating that de novo viral protein synthesis first occurred in the long-term-infected PC12 cells. Interestingly, the ability to induce HSV varied among the cell lines tested. For example, monkey kidney CV-1 cells and human hepatoblastoma HepG2 cells, but not mouse neuroblastoma cells or undifferentiated PC12 cells, mediated stimulation. This work thus shows that (i) quiescent HSV infections can be maintained in PC12 cells in vitro, (ii) HSV can be induced from cells which do not accumulate significant levels of latency-associated transcripts, and (iii) the activation of HSV gene expression can be induced via neighboring cells. The ability of adjacent cells to stimulate HSV gene expression in neuron-like cells represents a novel area of study. The mechanism(s) whereby HCF, HCE, and HepG2 and CV-1 cells communicate with PC12 cells and stimulate viral replication, as well as how this system compares with other in vitro models of long-term infection, is discussed."	1999	May	73	5	4171-80	10196313	0
745	"Su, YH"	The HSV 1 genome in quiescently infected NGF differentiated PC12 cells can not be stimulated by HSV superinfection	J Neurovirol	"This study reports that quiescent herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1 genomes, persisting in long-term infected nerve growth factor (NGF) differentiated PC12 cells, were not stimulated by superinfection with a HSV-1. We have previously shown that HSV-1 can establish long term, quiescent infections in NGF differentiated PC12 cells. To determine if virion associated factors or virus induced gene products could trans-activate the quiescent viral genomes, long term infected PC12 cell cultures were superinfected at a high moi (moi of 20) with a recombinant HSV 17alpha47/lacZ that contains the lacZ gene within the alpha 47 locus. Progeny virus and gene expression from the resident 'quiescent' viral genomes were not detected following superinfection with recombinant 17alpha47/lacZ. The failure to stimulate the quiescent genome appears to be related to the inability of the super infecting virus to induce any gene expression from its own genome following entry into the long term NGF treated PC12 cells. Interestingly, both primary and superinfecting viruses could be stimulated from the quiescently infected cultures following cocultivation with inducer cells. These data suggest that (i) HSV genomes in quiescently infected PC12 cells are unable to be stimulated by incoming virion associated factors and (ii) NGF differentiated PC12 cells maintained in tissue culture for longer than 3 weeks became completely refractory to viral gene expression. The possibilities that these results are reflective of populations of neural cells, in vivo in mouse central nervous system, which are completely refractory to virus gene expression, yet accommodating to the maintenance of viral genomes and thus favor 'latency', are discussed."	2000	Aug	6	4	341-9	10951558	0
746	"Su, YH"	Stability and circularization of herpes simplex virus type 1 genomes in quiescently infected PC12 cultures	J Gen Virol	"Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) DNA has been shown to exist as a linear, double-stranded molecule in the virion and as a non-linear (endless), episomal, nucleosomal form in latently infected trigeminal ganglia. The kinetics of the formation and appearance of endless viral genomes and the stability of linear genomes in neuronal cells are not well understood. Nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells can sustain long-term, quiescent infections with HSV-1. In this report, the structure and stability of HSV-1 viral DNA in NGF-differentiated PC12 cells was studied as a function of time following infection using both wild-type and replication-defective virus. Unexpectedly, unencapsidated linear genomes were stable in the nucleus of NGF-differentiated PC12 cells for up to 2-3 weeks following infection, beyond the period at which there is no detectable viral gene expression. However, following infection with wild-type HSV, the majority of quiescent viral genomes were in an endless form after 3-4 weeks. These data suggest that the stability and fate of HSV-1 DNA in non-mitotic neuronal-like cells is different from that in productively infected cells and thus there is a significant cellular role in this process. The relevance to the virus life-cycle in neurones in vivo is discussed."	2002	Dec	83	Pt 12	2943-50	12466470	0
747	"Su, YH"	Transrenal DNA as a diagnostic tool: important technical notes	Ann N Y Acad Sci	"A small portion of DNA from apoptotic cells escapes complete degradation, appears in blood as oligonucleosomal-size fragments, is excreted in the urine, and can be used for diagnostic purposes. More detailed study revealed that transrenal DNA (Tr-DNA) belongs to a relatively low molecular-weight (150-250 bp) fraction, thereby requiring more careful attention to methods employed for purification and analysis. For example, here it is demonstrated that the QIAamp blood kit purifies primarily high molecular-weight DNA from serum, whereas the Guanidine/Promega Wizard Resin (GITC/WR) method purifies primarily low molecular-weight DNA. As a result, sensitivity in detection of K-RAS mutations in serum of patients with colorectal tumors is significantly higher with DNA isolated with the GITC/WR method than with the QIAamp kit. Amplicon size is also extremely important in analysis of Tr-DNA, because the shorter the amplicon, the higher is the sensitivity of biomarker detection in Tr-DNA. One hundred fifty-seven and 87 bp amplicons were employed for detection of mutant K-RAS in DNA isolated from 0.1 mL of urine obtained from 15 patients with pancreatic cancer. Mutant K-RAS was found in Tr-DNA of 3 and 10 patients with the long and short amplicons, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of detection of mutant sequences are reduced in the presence of high excess of a respective wild-type allele, but they can be significantly increased through application of enriched polymerase chain reaction (PCR), peptide nucleic acid (PNA) clamped PCR, and/or stencil-aided mutation analysis (SAMA), based on selective pre-PCR elimination of wild-type sequences."	2004	Jun	1022		81-9	15251944	0
748	"Su, YH"	"Human urine contains small, 150 to 250 nucleotide-sized, soluble DNA derived from the circulation and may be useful in the detection of colorectal cancer"	J Mol Diagn	"Human urine has been shown to possess submicrogram per milliliter amounts of DNA. We show here that DNA isolated from human urine resolves into two size categories: the large species, greater than 1 kb, being predominantly cell associated and heterogeneous in size, and the smaller, between 150 to 250 bp, being mostly non-cell associated. We showed that the low molecular weight class of urine DNA is derived from the circulation, by comparing the mutated K-ras sequences present in DNA isolated from tumor, blood, and urine derived from an individual with a colorectal carcinoma (CRC) containing a mutation in codon 12 of the K-ras proto-oncogene. In the urine, mutated K-ras sequences were abundant in the low molecular weight species, but far less abundant in the large molecular weight-derived DNA. Finally, the possibility that detection of mutant K-ras sequences in DNA derived from the urine correlates with the occurrence of a diagnosis of CRC and polyps that contain mutant K-ras was explored in a blinded study. There was an 83% concurrence of mutated DNA detected in urine and its corresponding disease tissue from the same individuals, when paired urine and tissue sections from 20 subjects with either CRC or adenomatous polyps were analyzed for K-ras mutation. The possibility that the source of the trans renal DNA is apoptotic cells, and the potential use of this finding for cancer detection and monitoring is discussed."	2004	May	6	2	101-7	15096565	0
749	"Su, YR"	Glycosylation influences the ligand binding activities of mannose receptor	Adv Exp Med Biol		2005		564		25-Jun	16400804	0
750	"Su, Y"	Glycosylation influences the lectin activities of the macrophage mannose receptor	J Biol Chem	"The mannose receptor (MR) is a heavily glycosylated endocytic receptor that recognizes both mannosylated and sulfated ligands through its C-type lectin domains and cysteine-rich (CR) domain, respectively. Differential binding properties have been described for MR isolated from different sources, and we hypothesized that this could be due to altered glycosylation. Using MR transductants and purified MR, we demonstrate that glycosylation differentially affects both MR lectin activities. MR transductants generated in glycosylation mutant cell lines lacked most mannose internalization activity, but could internalize sulfated glycans. Accordingly, purified MR bearing truncated Man5-GlcNAc2 glycans (Man5 -MR) or non-sialylated complex glycans (SA0-MR) did not bind mannosylated glycans, but could recognize SO4-3-Gal in vitro. Additional studies showed that, although mannose recognition was largely independent of the oligomerization state of the protein, recognition of sulfated carbohydrates was mostly mediated by self-associated MR and that, in SA0-MR, there was a higher proportion of oligomeric MR. These results suggest that self-association could lead to multiple presentation of CR domains and enhanced avidity for sulfated sugars and that non-sialylated MR is predisposed to oligomerize. Therefore, the glycosylation of MR, terminal sialylation in particular, could influence its binding properties at two levels. (i) It is required for mannose recognition; and (ii) it modulates the tendency of MR to self-associate, effectively regulating the avidity of the CR domain for sulfated sugar ligands."	2005	Sep-23	280	38	32811-20	15983039	0
751	"Suganuma, R"	"Alkylated imino sugars, reversible male infertility-inducing agents, do not affect the genetic integrity of male mouse germ cells during short-term treatment despite induction of sperm deformities"	Biol Reprod	"Reversible infertility can be induced in male mice by oral administration of the alkylated imino sugars N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) and N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin (NB-DGJ). Spermatozoa of these mice have grossly misshapen heads and reduced motility. Because NB-DNJ and related compounds may hold promise as nonhormonal male contraceptives, a comprehensive examination of their effects on male reproduction is necessary. To this end, we further examined reproductive properties of the dysmorphic spermatozoa that are produced after short-term imino sugar administration at the minimal dose that completely abolishes the ability of male C57BL/6 mice to produce offspring by natural mating. Here, we report that, in vitro, the abnormal spermatozoa from the NB-DNJ- and NB-DGJ-treated mice were unable to fertilize oocytes. In addition, we investigated whether the imino sugars damage the genetic integrity of spermatozoa. To test this, we microsurgically injected deformed spermatozoa from imino sugar-treated males into oocytes. The deformed spermatozoa from the testis were able to activate oocytes very efficiently, but those from the cauda epididymis often failed to do so. This problem was overcome when the sperm-injected oocytes were treated with a parthenogenetic agent, Sr(2+). Oocytes injected with the misshapen spermatozoa from NB-DNJ- and NB-DGJ-treated mice developed (with or without Sr(2+) treatment) into live offspring that grew normally and were normally fertile. This indicates that during short-term administration, alkylated imino sugars alter sperm morphology and physiology but do not diminish the genetic potential of spermatozoa."	2005	Apr	72	4	805-13	15576825	0
752	"Suh, JH"	Endobronchial radiation therapy with or without neodymium yttrium aluminum garnet laser resection for managing malignant airway obstruction	Cancer	"BACKGROUND. Previous reports have shown low-dose-rate (LDR) afterloading Ir-192 endobronchial radiation therapy (EnBRT) to effectively palliate symptoms in patients with malignant airway obstruction. The authors retrospectively assessed the consequences of LDR EnBRT with or without neodymium yttrium aluminum garnet (Nd:YAG) laser resection in 37 patients. METHODS. Between February 1986 and June 1991, 37 patients with malignant airway obstruction were treated with LDR EnBRT at The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. Inclusion criteria for LDR EnBRT with or without Nd:YAG laser resection were patients with recurrent, symptomatic endobronchial lesions treated previously with external beam irradiation. Of the 37 patients, 21 patients with endobronchial lesions underwent Nd:YAG laser resection; 16 patients with mainly extrinsic lesions received EnBRT only. Before EnBRT, selected patients (7 of 16 in the nonlaser-treatment group and 14 of 21 in the laser-treatment group) received additional external beam treatments of 2000 cGy/10 fractions. The LDR afterloading Ir-192 technique was used to deliver approximately 30 Gy to a 1.0-cm radius target. RESULTS. All patients had one or more of the following symptoms: 1) dyspnea, 2) fever, 3) cough, and 4) hemoptysis. Good-to-excellent symptom relief was apparent in 16 of 21 (76.2%) laser-treated patients and in 12 of 16 (75%) nonlaser-treated patients. Follow-up bronchoscopy in 28 patients revealed tumor regression in 22 (79%). Median survival time was 16.3 weeks in the laser group and 11.7 weeks in the nonlaser group (P = 0.36). Longer median survival times were noted in laser-treated (22.8 weeks) and nonlaser-treated (16.4 weeks) patients receiving additional external beam treatments. Exsanguination occurred in 7 of 21 (33.3%) laser-treated patients and in 4 of 16 (25%) nonlaser-treated patients. The only factor affecting the exsanguination rate was implant location: 6 of 11 (54.5%) patients had lesions in the right or left upper lobe. CONCLUSIONS. EnBRT alone or with Nd:YAG laser resection provided good-to-excellent symptom palliation in these patients although a high rate of exsanguination occurred in both groups."	1994	May-15	73	10	2583-8	8174056	0
753	"Sumar, N"	Analysis of glycosylation changes in IgG using lectins	J Immunol Methods	A simple rapid assay based on the ability of lectins to bind carbohydrates has been developed to analyse changes in the oligosaccharide chains of IgG. Bandeiraea simplicifolia lectin and Ricinus communis agglutinin have been used to detect terminal N-acetylglucosamine and galactose moieties respectively in IgG using immunodot-blotting. IgG samples (approximately 1 micrograms) were dot-blotted onto nitrocellulose followed by boiling of the blots to expose the carbohydrate moieties. The blots were then treated with biotinylated lectins followed by either streptavidin-biotin-hydrogen peroxidase conjugate or 125I-labelled streptavidin. The colour was developed using chloronaphthol and the blots read on a densitometer. The labelled blots were cut and read on a gamma counter. The use of a monoclonal antibody to N-acetylglucosamine is also discussed. The results obtained using this method are comparable to those obtained by structural analysis.	1990	Jul-20	131	1	127-36	2199577	0
754	"Summerfield, JA and Taylor, ME"	"Mannose-binding proteins in human serum: identification of mannose-specific immunoglobulins and a calcium-dependent lectin, of broader carbohydrate specificity, secreted by hepatocytes"	Biochim Biophys Acta	"Human serum contains lectins which inhibit the uptake of mannose- and N-acetylglucosamine-terminated glycoproteins by isolated rat hepatic sinusoidal cells. In these experiments, calcium-dependent and calcium-independent human serum mannose-binding proteins have been isolated by affinity chromatography using mannan linked to four different supports. In electroblots both calcium-dependent and -independent serum mannose-binding proteins bound radioiodinated mannan and invertase in the presence of calcium ions, but the binding of calcium-dependent serum mannose-binding proteins was abolished by EDTA. Chicken antibodies were raised against serum mannose-binding proteins and an ELISA was developed. The principal calcium-independent serum mannose-binding protein is mannose-specific IgG as judged by immunodiffusion and electroblotting with anti-human IgG antibodies. The calcium-dependent serum mannose-binding protein is probably the secreted form of an intracellular hepatocyte mannose-binding protein since: antibodies raised against the 30 kDa subunit of the calcium-dependent serum mannose-binding protein also bound 30 kDa subunits of whole liver homogenate and purified human liver mannose-binding protein; antibodies to the human liver mannose-binding protein bound to the 30 kDa subunit of the calcium-dependent serum mannose-binding protein; and the binding specificities of the calcium-dependent serum mannose-binding protein for N-acetylglucosamine and fucose as well as mannose, and its recognition of the core region of an oligosaccharide rather than only the peripheral sugars, were identical to those reported for the hepatocyte mannose-binding protein. The physiological ligands of these serum mannose-binding proteins are unknown but they could bind noxious glycoproteins which enter the circulation prior to their removal by the sinusoidal mannose receptor."	1986	Sep-04	883	2	197-206	3741882	0
755	"Sutton, BJ"	The gross architecture of an antibody-combining site as determined by spin-label mapping	Biochem J		1977	Aug-01	165	2	177-97	200219	0
756	"Svensson, M"	Glycolipid receptor depletion as an approach to specific antimicrobial therapy	FEMS Microbiol Lett	"Mucosal pathogens recognize glycoconjugate receptors at the site of infection, and attachment is an essential first step in disease pathogenesis. Inhibition of attachment may prevent disease, and several approaches have been explored. This review discusses the prevention of bacterial attachment and disease by agents that modify the glycosylation of cell surface glycoconjugates. Glycosylation inhibitors were tested in the urinary tract infection model, where P-fimbriated Escherichia coli rely on glycosphingolipid receptors for attachment and tissue attack. N-butyldeoxynojirimycin blocked the expression of glucosylceramide-derived glycosphingolipids and attachment was reduced. Bacterial persistence in the kidneys was impaired and the inflammatory response was abrogated. N-butyldeoxynojirimycin was inactive against strains which failed to engage these receptors, including type 1 fimbriated or nonadhesive strains. In vivo attachment has been successfully prevented by soluble receptor analogues, but there is little clinical experience of such inhibitors. Large-scale synthesis of complex carbohydrates, which could be used as attachment inhibitors, remains a technical challenge. Antibodies to bacterial lectins involved in attachment may be efficient inhibitors, and fimbrial vaccines have been developed. Glycosylation inhibitors have been shown to be safe and efficient in patients with lipid storage disease and might therefore be tested in urinary tract infection. This approach differs from current therapies, including antibiotics, in that it targets the pathogens which recognize these receptors."	2006	May	258	1	01-Aug	16630247	0
757	"Tabares, G"	Different glycan structures in prostate-specific antigen from prostate cancer sera in relation to seminal plasma PSA	Glycobiology	"Prostate-specific antigen (PSA), the tumor marker currently used for prostate cancer (PCa), is not specific enough to distinguish between PCa and benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH). Glycan processing is normally perturbed in tumors, therefore we investigated whether changes in glycosylation of PSA could be useful diagnostic indicators. Previously we determined that the glycosylation of PSA secreted by the tumor prostate cell line LNCaP differs significantly from that of PSA from seminal plasma (normal control). We therefore undertook a detailed glycan analysis of PSA derived from sera from PCa patients and, importantly, established that the glycosylation of the PCa serum PSA was significantly different from the PSA from the LNCaP cell line. In comparison with seminal plasma PSA, the fucose content of PSA from the PCa patient serum was significantly lower and there was a decrease in alpha2,3-linked sialic acid. Differences in the glycosylation of PSA derived from PCa patients' sera, seminal plasma, and LNCaP cells were further established by lectin detection, glycosylation immunosorbent assay, and two-dimensional electrophoresis. We also investigated whether the impact of glycosylation changes initiated by the tumor was reflected in the serum glycome. By comparing the glycans released from the total glycoproteins in PCa patient serum with those of normal serum we found an increase in the proportion of sialyl-Lewis x structures. Further analysis of the glycosylation of PSA from PCa and BPH sera will be required in order to determine the utility of these glycan differences to discriminate specifically between benign and malignant prostate states."	2006	Feb	16	2	132-45	16177264	626
758	"Taniguchi, T"	Structures of the sugar chains of rabbit immunoglobulin G: occurrence of asparagine-linked sugar chains in Fab fragment	Biochemistry	"The asparagine-linked sugar chains of rabbit immunoglobulin G (IgG) and its Fc and Fab fragments were quantitatively liberated from the polypeptide portions by hydrazinolysis followed by N-acetylation and NaB3H4 reduction. After fractionation by paper electrophoresis, lectin chromatography, and gel filtration, their structures were studied by sequential exoglycosidase digestion in combination with methylation analysis. Rabbit IgG was shown to contain 2.3 mol of asparagine-linked sugar chains per molecule distributed in both the Fc and Fab fragments. The sugar chains were of the biantennary complex type containing four cores: Man alpha 1----6(Man alpha 1----3)(+/- GlcNAc beta 1----4)Man beta 1----4GlcNAc beta 1----4(+/- Fuc alpha 1----6)-GlcNAc. A total of 16 distinct neutral oligosaccharide structures was found after sialidase treatment. The galactose residue in the monogalactosylated oligosaccharides was present on either the alpha 1----3 or alpha 1----6 side of the trimannosyl core. The Fab fragments contained neutral, monosialylated, and disialylated oligosaccharides, whereas the Fc fragment contained only neutral and monosialylated structures. The oligosaccharides isolated from the Fab fragments also contained more galactose and bisecting N-acetylglucosamine residues than those from the Fc fragments."	1985	Sep-24	24	20	5551-7	4074713	0
759	"Taylor, ME and Sheehan, PM"	Evolution of fossil invertebrate communities: additional factors	Science		1968	Aug-02	161	840	491	5659694	0
760	"Taylor, ME"	Bone diseases and fractures in East African Viverridae	Can J Zool		1971	Jul	47	7	1035-42	5118669	0
761	"Taylor, ME"	Practice nurse--part of a team	Nurs Times		1972	Feb-03	68	5	157-8	5059853	0
762	"Taylor, ME"	Scanning electron microscopy in forensic science	J Forensic Sci Soc		1973	Oct	13	4	269-80	4791231	0
763	"Taylor, RN and Taylor, ME"	Differential perceptions of environmental esthetics	Percept Mot Skills		1973	Oct	37	2	587-91	4747388	0
764	"Taylor, ME"	The functional anatomy of the forelimb of some African viverridae (Carnivora)	J Morphol		1974	Jul	143	3	307-35	4837745	0
765	"Taylor, ME"	The functional anatomy of the hindlimb of some African Viverridae (Carnivora)	J Morphol	"The functional anatomy of the hindlimb of 12 species of viverrids was studied with relation to locomotion. The animals were allocated to primary locomotor categories on the basis of their anatomy and locomotion. The climbing, arboreal walking category (Nandinia binotata) is characterized by a small sacroiliac articulation, the iliopsoas inserts onto a medially located lesser trochanter and the femoral condyles are not posteriorly placed. The hindfoot is plantigrade and its structure permits considerable movement. The pads are soft and the claws retractile. Representatives of the arboreal and terrestrial walking and jumping category (Genetta genetta, G. servalina, G. tigrina) have a plantigrade forefoot and digitigrade hindfoot. The lesser trochanter is more posteriorly placed than in the climbing category. A previously undescribed muscle, the caudofemoralis profundus extends from several anterior caudal vertebrae to the femur. The tibio-astragular joint restricts supination of the foot. There is little mediolateral movement in the digitidgrade foot. The claws are retractile. In the general terrestrial walking and scrambling group (Helogale parvula, Mungos mungo, Atilax paludinosus, Bdeogale crassicauda, Herpestes ichneumon, H. sanguineus) the animals have essentially similar hindlimbs except for size differences and modifications to the feet. Helogale and Mungos have large medial epicondyles on the humerus and large terminal phalanges. Bdeogale has a vestigial first metatarsal, while Atilax can splay its digits. In all species the distal phalanges are non-retractile. The trotting category (Civettictis civetta, Ichneumia albicauda) is characterized by longer epipodials and metapodials and a more proximal position of muscle bellies. Most of the adaptations minimize rotation, adduction and abduction of the leg and supination of the foot. The metatarsals are closely adjoined and the distal phalanx is stout and non-retractile. There appear to be two levels of locomotory adaptation. Major adaptations affect the whole appendicular skeleton and are used to assign animals to primary locomotor categories. Minor adaptations occur mainly in the foot and indicate the more specific habits of the animal."	1976	Feb	148	2	227-54	1255730	0
766	"Taylor, ME"	"Campus health education: the plan, the program and the paradigm"	J Am Coll Health Assoc		1981	Jun	29	6	304-5	7264097	0
767	"Taylor, ME"	A discriminant analysis approach to exploring changes in human sexuality attitudes among university students	J Am Coll Health		1982	Dec	31	3	124-9	7166621	0
768	"Taylor, ME"	Purification of photochemically active halorhodopsin	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"We have developed a procedure for the purification of halorhodopsin in a photochemically active state. Solubilization of membranes from a bacteriorhodopsin-negative Halobacterium strain with octyl glucoside was followed by chromatography on hydroxylapatite and octyl-Sepharose gels. All steps were carried out in high-ionic-strength solutions. The procedure resulted in 270-fold enrichment with a 35% yield. The eluted pigment had an absorption maximum at 575 nm and an A280/A575 ratio of 2. On removal of the detergent by dialysis, the purified halorhodopsin was chemically bleached, regenerated with [3H]retinal, and reduced with cyanoborohydride. Such samples showed one main and one satellite band after staining or fluorography of NaDodSO4/polyacrylamide gels. The apparent molecular weight of the main band was 25,000. Purified halorhodopsin underwent a photocycle after excitation with pulsed laser light and showed a 9-nm blue shift (at neutral pH) on removal of chloride ion. The pigment also underwent a photoreversible shift at alkaline pH to a form absorbing maximally at 410 nm. All three reactions closely resembled those of membrane-bound halorhodopsin."	1983	Oct	80	20	6172-6	6578502	0
769	"Taylor, ME"	Changing sexual attitudes among university students: a geographic comparison	Health Educ		1983	Sep-Oct	14	5	23-Jun	6443936	0
770	"Taylor, ME and Summerfield, JA"	Human serum contains a lectin which inhibits hepatic uptake of glycoproteins	FEBS Lett	"Human serum will inhibit the specific uptake of N-acetylglucosamine-terminated glycoproteins by isolated rat hepatic sinusoidal cells. The serum inhibitors are not glycoproteins that bind to the hepatic mannose/N-acetylglucosamine receptor but have the properties of lectins which bind to mannose/N-acetylglucosamine-terminated glycoproteins. They can be isolated from serum by affinity chromatography. The predominant lectin, with a molecular mass of less than 35 kDa, will inhibit the sinusoidal cell uptake of glycoproteins in vitro."	1984	Jul-23	173	1	63-6	6086401	0
771	"Taylor, ME and Wolford, CA"	Sexuality and the disabled: apathy on the campus	J Am Coll Health		1985	Aug	34	1	34-6	2932496	0
772	"Taylor, ME"	Qualitative and quantitative strategies for exploring the progress of sex education for the handicapped	Health Educ		1985	Jun-Jul	16	3	16-Sep	2978754	0
773	"Taylor, ME and Summerfield, JA"	Mammalian mannose-binding proteins	Clin Sci (Lond)		1986	Jun	70	6	539-46	3519055	0
774	"Taylor, ME and Adame, DD"	Male and female sexuality attitudes: differences and similarities	Health Educ		1986	Feb-Mar	17	1	08-Dec	3152302	0
775	"Taylor, ME and Summerfield, JA"	Carbohydrate-binding proteins of human serum: isolation of two mannose/fucose-specific lectins	Biochim Biophys Acta	"Two lectins with specificities for mannose and fucose have been isolated from human serum by affinity chromatography. One mannose-binding protein (MBP 1) has a native Mr of 700,000 with subunits of Mr 32,000 and has specificities for N-acetylglucosamine, N-acetylmannosamine and glucose as well as for mannose and fucose. The other mannose-binding protein (MBP 2) has a native Mr of 200,000 with subunits of Mr 28,000 and is specific only for mannose and fucose. MBP 2 appears to recognize the core sugars of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides as well as the terminal sugars. Both lectins are calcium-dependent, requiring approx. 0.095 mM calcium for half-maximal binding. MBP 1 binds maximally between pH 7-9, whereas MBP 2 has a pH optimum of 6-7. The binding activity of both proteins decreases rapidly below pH 5. The apparent association constants (Ka) for binding to mannon are 2.1 X 10(8) M-1 for MBP 1 and 1.3 X 10(8) M-1 for MBP 2. These data provide further evidence of the complex nature of mammalian carbohydrate recognition systems."	1987	Sep-02	915	1	60-7	3620482	0
776	"Taylor, ME"	Uptake and processing of glycoproteins by rat hepatic mannose receptor	Am J Physiol	"A linear compartmental model has been developed for the in vivo metabolism of glycoproteins. The model is applied to the interpretation of dynamic data from the rat on agalactoorosomucoid (AGOR), an N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc-)-terminated glycoprotein, and three neoglycoproteins terminating in mannose [mannose36-bovine serum albumin (Man-BSA)] or glucose [maltose29-BSA (Mal29-BSA) and maltose8-BSA (Mal8-BSA)]. All of these proteins are taken up by the Man/GlcNAc receptor on hepatic sinusoidal cells. The rate of uptake was found to be determined by sugar type (Man-BSA, 0.78 min-1 greater than Mal29-BSA, 0.13 min-1), sugar density (Mal29-BSA greater than Mal8-BSA), and the geometry of the sugar display (AGOR, 0.51 min-1 greater than Mal29-BSA). Intracellular transport from the cell membrane to the lysosomes was slower for Man-BSA (approximately 3 min) than for the other ligands (approximately 0 min), suggesting that receptor-ligand uncoupling was slower for Man-BSA for which the receptor had the highest affinity or that extralysosomal catabolism of the other ligands occurred. Catabolism was also determined by the carbohydrate moiety of the ligand; it was greater for Mal29-BSA and Mal8-BSA (greater than or equal to 0.8 min-1) than for Man-BSA (0.27 min-1), and AGOR, with a complex oligosaccharide, was most resistant to degradation (0.14 min-1). An understanding of these structural features of glycoproteins that influence hepatic uptake, transport, and catabolism will be of value in drug targeting and for enzyme replacement in lysosomal storage disorders.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"	1987	May	252	5 Pt 1	E690-8	3578517	0
777	"Taylor, ME and Wang, MQ"	Educational implications of alcohol use patterns among employed women	Health Educ		1988	Oct-Nov	19	5	78-82	3152253	0
778	"Taylor, ME"	Structure and evolutionary origin of the gene encoding a human serum mannose-binding protein	Biochem J	"The N-terminal sequence of the major human serum mannose-binding protein (MBP1) was shown to be identical at all positions determined with the amino acid sequence predicted from a cDNA clone of a human liver MBP mRNA. An oligonucleotide corresponding to part of the sequence of this cDNA clone was used to isolate a cosmid genomic clone containing a homologous gene. The intron/exon structure of this gene was found to closely resemble that of the gene encoding a rat liver MBP (MBP A). The nucleotide sequence of the exons differed in several places from that of the human cDNA clone published by Ezekowitz, Day & Herman [(1988) J. Exp. Med. 167, 1034-1046]. The MBP molecule comprises a signal peptide, a cysteine-rich domain, a collagen-like domain, a 'neck' region and a carbohydrate-binding domain. Each domain is encoded by a separate exon. This genomic organization lends support to the hypothesis that the gene arose during evolution by a process of exon shuffling. Several consensus sequences that may be involved in controlling the expression of human serum MBP have been identified in the promoter region of the gene. The consensus sequences are consistent with the suggestion that this mammalian serum lectin is regulated as an acute-phase protein synthesized by the liver."	1989	Sep-15	262	3	763-71	2590164	0
779	"Taylor, ME"	Effects of contraceptive education on adolescent male contraceptive behavior and attitudes	Health Educ		1989	Apr-May	20	2	12-Jul	2516025	0
780	"Taylor, ME"	Return to work following back surgery: a review	Am J Ind Med	Nineteen articles published between 1980 and 1986 were reviewed to determine the prognosis for returning to previous employment following back surgery. Seventy-seven percent of the cases reviewed returned to their previous level of employment. Nearly 11% of cases had additional back surgery during the period of follow-up. Data from three articles suggest that 82% of patients are able to return to their previous level of employment following primary back surgery compared to 59% of patients who have had multiple back surgeries. Recommendations for work activity following back surgery should be individualized for each patient. A work-hardening program including assessment of cardiovascular fitness and task performance can be used to progressively increase activity to the highest achievable level. Prevention of back injuries in the workplace will increase employee morale and reduce employee turnover and workers' compensation costs.	1989		16	1	79-88	2526580	0
781	"Taylor, ME"	Primary structure of the mannose receptor contains multiple motifs resembling carbohydrate-recognition domains	J Biol Chem	"Macrophages express a cell surface receptor which mediates phagocytosis and pinocytosis of particles and solutes containing mannose (fucose and N-acetylglucosamine are also ligands for the receptor). An apparently identical protein has been isolated from human placenta. Proteolytic fragments of the placental receptor were sequenced so that oligonucleotide probes complementary to the receptor cDNA could be generated. These probes were used to isolate cDNA clones covering the entire coding portion of the mRNA for the receptor. Confirmation that these clones encode the mannose receptor was obtained by expression in rat fibroblasts. The expressed protein mediates uptake and degradation of mannose-conjugated serum albumin. The deduced amino acid sequence of the receptor reveals that it is most likely to be a type I transmembrane protein (COOH terminus on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane) since the mature polypeptide is preceded by a signal sequence and a hydrophobic stop transfer sequence is located 45 amino acids from the COOH terminus. The extracellular portion of the receptor polypeptide consists of three types of domains. The first 139 amino acids constitute a cysteine-rich segment which does not resemble other known sequences. There follows a domain which closely resembles fibronectin type II repeats. The remainder of the extracellular portion of the receptor is composed of eight segments homologous with the C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains of the asialoglycoprotein receptor, mannose binding proteins, and other Ca2(+)-dependent animal lectins. This structure suggests that the receptor may contain multiple ligand-binding domains thus accounting for its tight binding to highly multivalent ligands."	1990	Jul-25	265	21	12156-62	2373685	0
782	"Taylor, ME and Drickamer, K"	Carbohydrate-recognition domains as tools for rapid purification of recombinant eukaryotic proteins	Biochem J	"Methods have been developed for expression and purification of eukaryotic proteins by creating fusions with the carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) of the galactose-specific rat hepatic lectin. In order to generate the fusion proteins, vectors have been constructed so that cDNAs for passenger proteins can be inserted in any reading frame following a segment of DNA encoding the CRD. The feasibility of using this approach as an aid to protein purification has been demonstrated using human placental alkaline phosphatase. Following expression in either of two different eukaryotic expression systems, the CRD-phosphatase fusion protein can be isolated by one step of affinity chromatography on galactose-Sepharose under mild, non-denaturing conditions. Incorporation of a proteinase-sensitive linker allows cleavage of the CRD from the passenger protein. Immobilised proteinase could be rapidly separated from the cleavage products and the released, active phosphatase was purified away from the CRD by re-chromatography on galactose-Sepharose. These methods provide a means of isolating correctly folded recombinant eukaryotic proteins when cDNAs are available, but the properties of the encoded proteins are unknown."	1991	Mar-01	274 ( Pt 2)		575-80	2006918	0
783	"Taylor, ME"	SWAT team: aggressive approach to the '90s	Nurs Econ		1991	Nov-Dec	9	6	431-3	1956431	0
784	"Taylor, ME and Oppenheim, BA"	Selective decontamination of the gastrointestinal tract as an infection control measure	J Hosp Infect	"An outbreak caused by a Klebsiella aerogenes resistant to ceftazidime, cefuroxime, cefotaxime, ampicillin and piperacillin and sensitive to aminoglycosides, imipenem and temocillin occurred in a teaching hospital's busy multi-disciplinary Intensive Care Unit over a 3-month period. Four patients had bacteraemia and a further four were colonized. Traditional infection control measures failed to eradicate the outbreak. The introduction of a selective gastrointestinal decontamination regimen consisting of tobramycin, amphotericin and colistin as a gel to the oropharynx, nose and rectum and a suspension via a nasogastric tube resulted in rapid disappearance of the outbreak strain with no new isolates being detected clinically or in surveillance specimens over an 8-week period."	1991	Apr	17	4	271-8	1677652	0
785	"Taylor, ME and Brogan, TD"	Sensitivity testing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa against netilmicin and gentamicin: aminoglycosides revisited	J Infect		1991	Mar	22	2	209-11	1902863	0
786	"Taylor, ME and Drickamer, K"	Expression and purification of the cytoplasmic tail of an endocytic receptor by fusion to a carbohydrate-recognition domain	Protein Expr Purif	"Gene fusion has been used to produce the cytoplasmic domain of an endocytic receptor. DNA sequences coding for the 52 COOH-terminal amino acids of the mannose receptor from human macrophages, including the 41-amino acid cytoplasmic tail, were fused to the codons specifying the carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) of rat mannose-binding protein. The fusion protein was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified in one step on mannose-Sepharose, making use of the carbohydrate-binding activity of the CRD. The tail peptide was released from the fusion protein using endoproteinase Arg-C. This method provides an alternative to chemical synthesis for the production of midlength peptides."	1992	Aug	3	4	308-12	1422224	0
787	"Taylor, ME"	Contribution to ligand binding by multiple carbohydrate-recognition domains in the macrophage mannose receptor	J Biol Chem	"The extracellular portion of the macrophage mannose receptor is composed of several cysteine-rich domains, including a fibronectin type II repeat and eight segments related in sequence to Ca(2+)-dependent carbohydrate-recognition domains (CRDs) of animal lectins. Expression of portions of the receptor in vitro, in fibroblasts and in bacteria, has been used to determine which of the extracellular domains are involved in binding and endocytosis of ligand. The NH2-terminal cysteine-rich domain and the fibronectin type II repeat are not necessary for endocytosis of mannose-terminated glycoproteins. CRDs 1-3 have at most very weak affinity for carbohydrate, so the carbohydrate binding activity of the receptor resides in CRDs 4-8. CRD 4 shows the highest affinity binding and has multispecificity for a variety of monosaccharides. However, CRD 4 alone cannot account for the binding of the receptor to glycoproteins. At least 3 CRDs (4, 5, and 7) are required for high affinity binding and endocytosis of multivalent glycoconjugates. In this respect, the mannose receptor is like other carbohydrate-binding proteins, in which several CRDs, each with weak affinity for single sugars, are clustered to achieve high affinity binding to oligosaccharides. In the mannose receptor, these multiple weak interactions are achieved through several active CRDs in a single polypeptide chain rather than by oligomerization of polypeptides each containing a single CRD."	1992	Jan-25	267	3	1719-26	1730714	0
788	"Taylor, ME and Drickamer, K"	Structural requirements for high affinity binding of complex ligands by the macrophage mannose receptor	J Biol Chem	"The mannose receptor of macrophage and hepatic endothelial cells discriminates between endogenous and exogenous sugar-bearing structures. Previous competition studies have indicated that the receptor binds the monosaccharides mannose, fucose, and N-acetylglucosamine but displays much higher affinity for multivalent oligosaccharides, such as those found on the surface of potentially pathogenic microorganisms. The hydrodynamic properties of the receptor have been examined, revealing that the receptor is a monomer. This result suggests that multiple carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs) in the extracellular domain of a single receptor polypeptide cooperate to achieve high affinity binding of complex ligands. In order to determine the importance of individual CRDs, properties of receptor segments containing groups of CRDs expressed in insect cells have been examined. The results indicate that two of the CRDs (4 and 5) form a protease-resistant, ligand-binding core but that five CRDs in tandem (4-8) are required to match the affinity of the intact receptor for yeast mannan. A consequence of the organization of the receptor is that both valency and geometry of glycoconjugates are important determinants of binding affinity."	1993	Jan-05	268	1	399-404	8416946	0
789	"Taylor, ME"	Recognition of complex carbohydrates by the macrophage mannose receptor	Biochem Soc Trans		1993	May	21	2	468-73	8359512	0
790	"Taylor, ME"	Factors influencing cosmetic results after conservation therapy for breast cancer	Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys	"PURPOSE: Host, tumor, and treatment-related factors influencing cosmetic outcome are analyzed for patients receiving breast conservation treatment. METHODS AND MATERIALS: Four-hundred and fifty-eight patients with evaluable records for cosmesis evaluation, a subset of 701 patients treated for invasive breast cancer with conservation technique between 1969 and 1990, were prospectively analyzed. In 243 patients, cosmetic evaluation was not adequately recorded. Cosmesis evaluation was carried out from 3.7 months to 22.3 years, median of 4.4 years. By pathologic stage, tumors were 62% T1N0, 14% T1N1, 15%, T2N0, and 9% T2N1. The majority of patients were treated with 4-6 MV photons. Cosmetic evaluation was rated by both patient and physician every 4-6 months. A logistic regression analysis was completed using a stepwise logistic regression. P-values of 0.05 or less were considered significant. Excellent cosmetic scores were used in all statistical analyses unless otherwise specified. RESULTS: At most recent follow-up, 87% of patients and 81% of physicians scored their cosmetic outcome as excellent or good. Eighty-two percent of physician and patient evaluations agreed with excellent-good vs. fair-poor rating categories. Analysis demonstrated a lower proportion of excellent cosmetic scores when related to patient age > 60 years (p = 0.001), postmenopausal status (p = 0.02), black race (p = 0.0034), and T2 tumor size (p = 0.05). Surgical factors of importance were: volume of resection > 100 cm3 (p = 0.0001), scar orientation compliance with the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast Project (NSABP) guidelines (p = 0.0034), and > 20 cm2 skin resected (p = 0.0452). Extent of axillary surgery did not significantly affect breast cosmesis. Radiation factors affecting cosmesis included treatment volume (tangential breast fields only vs. three or more fields) (p = 0.034), whole breast dose in excess of 50 Gy (p = 0.0243), and total dose to tumor site > 65 Gy (p = 0.06), as well as optimum dose distribution with compensating filters (p = 0.002). Daily fraction size of 1.8 Gy vs. 2.0 Gy, boost vs. no boost, type of boost (brachytherapy vs. electrons), total radiation dose, and use of bolus were not significant factors. Use of concomitant chemotherapy with irradiation impaired excellent cosmetic outcome (p = 0.02). Use of sequential chemotherapy or adjuvant tamoxifen did not appear to diminish excellent cosmetic outcomes (p = 0.31). Logistic regression for excellent cosmetic outcome analysis was completed for age, tumor size, menopausal status, race, type of surgery, volume of breast tissue resected, scar orientations, whole breast radiation dose, total radiation dose, number of radiation fields treated, and use of adjuvant chemotherapy. Significant independent factors for excellent cosmetic outcome were: volume of tissue resected (p = 0.0001), type of surgery (p = 0.0001), breast radiation dose (p = 0.005), race (p = 0.002), and age (p = 0.007). CONCLUSIONS: Satisfactory cosmesis was recorded in 81% of patients. Impaired cosmetic results are more likely with improper orientation of tylectomy and axillary incisions, larger volume of breast resection, radiation dose to the entire breast in excess of 50.0 Gy, and concurrent administration of chemotherapy. Careful selection of treatment procedures for specific patients/tumors and refinement in surgical/irradiation techniques will enhance the cosmetic results in breast conservation therapy."	1995	Feb-15	31	4	753-64	7860386	0
791	"Taylor, ME"	Stress and strain distribution within the intact femur: compression or bending?	Med Eng Phys	"The aim of this research was to test the hypothesis that the intact femur is loaded predominately in compression. The study was composed of two parts: a finite element analysis of the intact femur to assess if a compressive stress distribution could be achieved in the diaphyseal region of the femur using physiological muscle and joint contact forces; a simple radiological study to assess the in vivo deflections of the femur during one legged stance. The results of this investigation strongly support the hypothesis that the femur is loaded primarily in compression, and not bending as previously thought. The finite element analysis demonstrated that a compressive stress distribution in the diaphyseal femur can be achieved, producing a stress distribution which appears to be consistent with the femoral cross-sectional geometry. The finite element analysis also predicted that for a compressive load case there would be negligible deflections of the femoral head. The radiological study confirmed this, with no measurable in vivo deflection of the femur occurring during one legged stance."	1996	Mar	18	2	122-31	8673318	0
792	"Taylor, CE"	Ethical dilemmas in current planning for polio eradication	Am J Public Health	"Intensification of polio eradication efforts worldwide raises concerns about costs and benefits for poor countries. A major argument for global funding is the high benefit-cost ratio of eradication; however, financial benefits are greatest for rich countries. By contrast, the greatest costs are borne by poor countries; the Pan American Health Organization has estimated that host countries bore 80% of costs for polio eradication in the Americas. The 1988 World Health Assembly resolution setting up the Polio Eradication Initiative carried the proviso that programs should strengthen health infrastructures. Drastic cuts in donor funding for health make this commitment even more important. Two international evaluations have reported both positive and negative effects of polio and Expanded Programme on Immunization programs on the functioning and sustainability of primary health care. Negative effects were greatest in poor countries with many other diseases of public health importance. If poor countries are expected to divert funds from their own urgent priorities, donors should make solid commitments to long-term support for sustainable health development."	1997	Jun	87	6	922-5	9224170	0
793	"Taylor, ME"	Evolution of a family of receptors containing multiple C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains	Glycobiology		1997	Apr	7	3	v-viii	9147037	0
794	"Taylor, CE"	Ethical dilemmas in polio eradication	Am J Public Health		1998	Jul	88	7	1125	9663173	0
795	"Taylor, ME and Oppenheim, BA"	Hospital-acquired infection in elderly patients	J Hosp Infect	"Increasing numbers of elderly people are being treated in hospitals and are at particular risk of acquiring infections. The incidence, risk factors and types of hospital-acquired infection (HAI) in the elderly are reviewed. Special reference is made to urinary tract infections, respiratory tract infections, gastrointestinal infections including Clostridium difficile, bacteraemia, skin and soft tissue infections and infections with antibiotic-resistant organisms."	1998	Apr	38	4	245-60	9602974	0
796	"Taylor, ME"	Detection of glycopeptide-resistant enterococci in routine diagnostic faeces specimens	J Hosp Infect	"Faeces received in a diagnostic laboratory were screened for glycopeptide-resistant enterococci (GRE) on modified Lewisham medium, with and without enrichment in Enterococcosel broth. Colonization by GRE was detected in 102/838 patients (12.2%). In 74 (73%) of colonized patients GRE were detected by both methods and in 28 (27%) they were detected only after enrichment. The carriage rate in hospitalized patients was 32% (93/289) compared with 2.3% (11/425) in the community (GP patients and food-handlers). Carriage of GRE increased with age. Clostridium difficile isolation was associated with GRE colonization, odds ratio 6.76 (P<0.001). Fifty-nine percent (60/102) of the GRE had the VanA phenotype and 41% (42/102) had the VanB phenotype. In the community VanA predominated (91%), whereas 64% (57/89) of the isolates from hospitalised patients were of the VanB phenotype."	1999	Sep	43	1	25-32	10462636	0
797	"Taylor, ME"	Postmastectomy radiotherapy. American College of Radiology. ACR Appropriateness Criteria	Radiology		2000	Jun	215 Suppl		1153-70	11037539	0
798	"Taylor, ME"	Structure and function of the macrophage mannose receptor	Results Probl Cell Differ		2001		33		105-21	11190670	0
799	"Taylor, ME"	Teaching bandaging and Doppler usage for venous ulcer treatment	Br J Nurs	"This article describes how an assessor's guide and a student learning contract about compression and Doppler therapy was presented to community nurses and practice nurses in an NHS acute and community trust. The objectives were to provide potential assessors with standardized practice in the application of compression bandaging and the use of Doppler-assisted diagnosis in the treatment of venous leg ulceration. This was achieved by a teaching session using two checklists, one for the assessor and the other for the 'student'. Role play was used to allow experience of assessing or being assessed in a classroom setting. References to key pertinent articles were provided to support the learning contract, and the development of a resource file was proposed. In recognizing their own limited knowledge and experience, a small number of practitioners felt unable to assess 'officially' other members of their staff."	2002	Nov	11	20 Suppl	"S20, S22, S24, S27"	12476149	0
800	"Taylor, ME"	Breast cancer: chest wall recurrences	Curr Treat Options Oncol	"Irradiation is indicated for patients undergoing mastectomy as surgical management for breast cancer treatment when clinical or pathologic tumor and nodal features predict risk of local/regional recurrence. Such features include: tumor size >/= 5 cm, inadequate surgical margins; skin, facial, or skeletal muscle invasion; dermal lymphatic invasion; poorly differentiated tumor histology; four or more lymph nodes positive; gross extracapsular tumor nodal extension into soft tissues; and matted lymph nodes or enlarged lymph nodes > 2 cm. Patients who were treated with irradiation after mastectomy can develop local/regional recurrences despite such adjuvant therapy. General management for chest wall and nodal recurrences is structured on the extent and volume of local/regional disease, the absence of distant metastases, the general health of the patient, and the extent of prior local/regional therapies, especially irradiation. Management of local/regional recurrence in the setting of no prior irradiation includes tumor debulking by systemic or surgical treatment followed by comprehensive chest wall and regional lymphatic irradiation. Doses are selected by tissue tolerances and volume of remaining disease. The management strategy for the patient with a history of irradiation parallels the nonirradiated patient with respect to systemic and surgical therapies to debulk the tumor to maximal response or no gross clinical disease. Radiation field design is determined by prior therapies. Doses to these fields are adjusted to normal tissue tolerance. Irradiation is given with a sensitizer such as hyperthermia or 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy. Use of radiation sensitizers can allow for a more meaningful biologic tumor effect when normal tissue tolerances prohibit delivery of standard tumor doses. Hyperthermia has been used effectively to promote complete tumor responses with use of irradiation in re-treatment cases."	2002	Apr	3	2	175-7	12057080	0
801	"Taylor, ME and Drickamer, K"	Structure-function analysis of C-type animal lectins	Methods Enzymol		2003		363		Mar-16	14579563	0
802	"te Vruchte, D"	Accumulation of glycosphingolipids in Niemann-Pick C disease disrupts endosomal transport	J Biol Chem	"Glycosphingolipids are endocytosed and targeted to the Golgi apparatus but are mistargeted to lysosomes in sphingolipid storage disorders. Substrate reduction therapy utilizes imino sugars to inhibit glucosylceramide synthase and potentially abrogate the effects of storage. Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) disease is a disorder of intracellular transport where glycosphingolipids (GSLs) and cholesterol accumulate in endosomal compartments. The mechanisms of altered intracellular trafficking are not known but may involve the mistargeting and disrupted function of proteins associated with GSL membrane microdomains. Membrane microdomains were isolated by Triton X-100 and sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation. High pressure liquid chromatography and mass spectrometric analysis of NPC1(-/-) mouse brain revealed large increases in GSL. Sphingosine was also found to be a component of membrane microdomains, and in NPC liver and spleen, large increases in cholesterol and sphingosine were found. GSL and cholesterol levels were increased in mutant NPC1-null Chinese hamster ovary cells as well as U18666A and progesterone induced NPC cell culture models. However, inhibition of GSL synthesis in NPC cells with N-butyldeoxygalactonojirimycin led to marked decreases in GSL but only small decreases in cholesterol levels. Both annexin 2 and 6, membrane-associated proteins that are important in endocytic trafficking, show distorted distributions in NPC cells. Altered BODIPY lactosylceramide targeting, decreased endocytic uptake of a fluid phase marker, and mistargeting of annexin 2 (phenotypes associated with NPC) are reversed by inhibition of GSL synthesis. It is suggested that accumulating GSL is part of a mislocalized membrane microdomain and is responsible for the deficit in endocytic trafficking found in NPC disease."	2004	Jun-18	279	25	26167-75	15078881	0
803	"Tekoah, Y"	Controlled glycosylation of therapeutic antibodies in plants	Arch Biochem Biophys	"Recombinant therapeutic monoclonal antibodies (mAb) can be expressed, assembled, and glycosylated in plants. Transgenic plants, producing anti-rabies mAb and anti-colorectal cancer mAb, were obtained from Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The heavy chain (HC) of anti-rabies mAb was fused to the Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu (KDEL) endoplasmic reticulum retention signal whereas the HC of anti-colorectal cancer mAb was not fused to the KDEL sequence. Gel release of glycans and detection by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), together with computer assisted analysis and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALD-TOF) mass spectrometry, revealed that the plant-derived anti-rabies mAb with KDEL contained mainly oligomannose type N-glycans while the plant-derived anti-colorectal cancer mAb carried mainly biantennary glycans with and without a pentose sugar, that is thought to be xylose. This finding indicates that the KDEL sequence can affect the N-glycosylation processing of antibody in plant cells. The plant-derived mAbs with addition of a KDEL sequence did not contain any of the known antigenic glycan epitopes that are frequently found in other plant glycans or in mammalian-derived mAbs. The altered glycosylation on both plant-derived mAbs did not affect the activities that are required for therapy. These results indicate that plant genetic engineering could provide an effective and inexpensive means to control the glycosylation of therapeutic proteins such as mAbs, by the addition of a KDEL signal as a regulatory element."	2004	Jun-15	426	2	266-78	15158677	537
804	"Tennent, GA"	Molecular characterization of Limulus polyphemus C-reactive protein. I. Subunit composition	Eur J Biochem	"The molecular mass of whole native C-reactive protein (CRP) from Limulus polyphemus, the horseshoe crab, was precisely determined for the first time, by analytical ultracentrifugation after measurement of its absorption coefficient, A1cm, 1% at 280 nm (15.49) and its partial specific volume (0.72 +/- 0.003 ml/g). The apparent weight-average molecular mass, in the range over which it was independent of the concentration, was 300 kDa. Limulus CRP, isolated from an individual animal, was also analyzed by electrospray mass spectrometry after dissociation into its subunits, and nine components were detected in the mass range 24935-25617 Da. Four of these components corresponded precisely to one of the previously reported protein sequences of Limulus CRP subunits which is glycosylated by a single oligosaccharide chain of composition, Man2GlcNAc2, Man3GlcNAc2, Man4GlcNAc2 or Man5GlcNAc2, the structures of which are elucidated in the accompanying paper [Amatayakul-Chantler, S., Dwek, R. A., Tennent, G. A., Pepys, M. B. & Rademacher, T. W. Molecular characterization of Limulus polyphemus C-reactive protein. II. Asparagine-linked oligosaccharides (1993) Eur. J. Biochem. 214, 99-110]. All the remaining components, except one minor component, corresponded to the analogous glycoforms of peptides of molecular mass 24281 +/- 2 Da and 24523 +/- 1 Da, neither of which have previously been characterized. These results are consistent with the presence of 12 subunits in the Limulus CRP molecule, in contrast to the number of subunits in vertebrate members of the CRP family. The CRP family members in vertebrates are known as pentraxins because of the symmetrical pentameric arrangement of their subunits. The concentration of Limulus CRP in hemolymph from 20 individual animals, measured precisely by specific electroimmunoassay, covered the wide range 0.275-6.64 mg/ml, mean (SD) = 1.83 (2.06) mg/ml. It remains to be determined whether this protein is an acute-phase reactant, like its human and some other mammalian homologues."	1993	May-15	214	1	91-7	8508811	0
805	"Thomas, JR"	"Structure, biosynthesis, and function of glycosylphosphatidylinositols"	Biochemistry	"The last few years have witnessed an explosion in our knowledge of GPI membrane anchors and related glycolipids and molecules where structure details are available, as illustrated in Figure 2. There is now sufficient information on a handful of these molecules to allow a detailed comparison of their chemical structures. Despite a common structural theme, i.e., the presence of mannoglucosaminyl-PI, a great deal of diversity exists in both the glycan structures and the glycerol-linked aliphatic substituents. The complexities of the structures clearly show that a multitechnique approach is required in the elucidation of their structures. The anticipated publication of more structures from a wider range of organisms may reveal even greater diversity, as well as suggesting possible biosynthetic pathways. The details of a potential biosynthetic pathway in T. brucei are becoming apparent, but confirmation of its importance awaits the isolation and characterization of the enzymes involved. Leishmania, in which LPG, GPIs, GIPLs, and GPI membrane anchors are produced, may also provide an interesting system for biosynthetic studies. The recent description of a GPI biosynthetic system in yeast may provide the crucial breakthroughs necessary in unraveling the enzymes and sugar donors involved in the biosynthetic pathway and possibly the role of the GPI membrane anchor in the function of proteins containing these moieties. Knowledge of the solution structure (conformation), in addition to the complete chemical structure, of the T. brucei VSG anchor has led to speculation that the glycan fulfills a space-filling role in the VSG coat. Many other possible roles of GPI membrane anchors have been suggested, including the shedding and turnover of membrane proteins, signal transduction, and intracellular targeting. Nevertheless, the only function of GPIs that we can so far be certain of is that they anchor proteins or polysaccharide to a membrane. Regardless of the roles GPIs may or may not ultimately be shown to play, the fact that such a widely occurring structure has only recently been characterized serves as a reminder of the incompleteness of our knowledge of biological phenomena and the constant possibility of finding novel molecules in obvious places."	1990	Jun-12	29	23	5413-22	2143679	0
806	"Tian, G"	Inhibition of alpha-glucosidases I and II increases the cell surface expression of functional class A macrophage scavenger receptor (SR-A) by extending its half-life	J Biol Chem	"The class A scavenger receptor (SR-A) is a multifunctional trimeric membrane glycoprotein involved in atherogenesis. The mature receptor can mediate the binding and internalization of a number of specific ligands, including modified low-density lipoprotein. We have investigated the effects of inhibiting N-glycan processing on SR-A expression, distribution, and activity in the murine macrophage cell line RAW264.7. We have found that SR-A normally interacts with calnexin in the endoplasmic reticulum and in its mature form carries complex N-glycans. The imino sugar, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) is an inhibitor of the N-glycan processing enzymes alpha-glucosidases I and II. Following NB-DNJ treatment SR-A became Endo H-sensitive, consistent with inhibition of N-glycan processing. A dose-dependent increase in cell surface expression of SR-A was observed in response to NB-DNJ treatment. The receptor on inhibitor-treated cells was still functional because the increased surface expression resulted in a proportional enhancement in the endocytosis of the ligand, acetylated low-density lipoprotein. The expression of SR-A on NB-DNJ cultured cells was further enhanced by co-treatment with interferon-gamma. Quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis did not show a significant difference in the amount of SR-A mRNA in NB-DNJ-treated RAW264.7 cells. However, the half-life of SR-A protein was significantly increased. These data indicate the retention of glucosylated N-glycans does not result in gross misfolding and degradation of this receptor or prevent its transport to the cell surface. SR-A interacts with calnexin and when the association is prevented changes in the recycling kinetics and rate of turnover of the receptor result, leading to enhanced cell surface expression."	2004	Sep-17	279	38	39303-9	15234963	0
807	"Tinger, A"	A 47-year-old woman with ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast	Jama		1996	May-15	275	19	1478; author reply 1	8622214	0
808	"Torgersen, D"	Mechanism of ligand binding to E- and P-selectin analyzed using selectin/mannose-binding protein chimeras	J Biol Chem	"The mechanism of oligosaccharide binding to the selectin cell adhesion molecules has been analyzed by transferring regions of the carbohydrate-recognition domains of E- and P-selectin into corresponding sites in the homologous rat serum mannose-binding protein. Insertion of two basic regions and an adjacent glutamic acid residue leads to efficient binding of HL-60 cells and sialyl-Lewisx-conjugated serum albumin. Substitution of glycine for a histidine residue known to stabilize mannose in the binding site of wild type mannose-binding protein results in dramatic loss of affinity for mannose without decreasing binding to sialyl-Lewisx. The accumulated effect of these changes is to alter the ligand binding selectivity of the domain so that it resembles E- or P-selectin more closely than it resembles the parental mannose-binding domain. Affinity labeling using sialyl-Lewisx in which the sialic acid has been mildly oxidized has been used to verify this switch in specificity and to show that the sialic acid-containing portion of the ligand interacts near the sequence Lys-Lys-Lys corresponding to residues 111-113 of E-selectin. The binding of sialyl-Lewisx-serum albumin is inhibited dramatically at physiological and higher salt concentrations, consistent with a significant electrostatic component to the binding interaction. The binding characteristics of these gain-of-function chimeras suggest that they contain many of the selectin residues responsible for selective ligand binding."	1998	Mar-13	273	11	6254-61	9497351	0
809	"Tullberg, M"	White matter lesions impair frontal lobe function regardless of their location	Neurology	"OBJECTIVE: To analyze the effect of white matter lesions in different brain regions on regional cortical glucose metabolism, regional cortical atrophy, and cognitive function in a sample with a broad range of cerebrovascular disease and cognitive function. METHODS: Subjects (n = 78) were recruited for a study of subcortical ischemic vascular disease (SIVD) and Alzheimer disease (AD) contributions to dementia. A new method was developed to define volumes of interest from high-resolution three-dimensional T1-weighted MR images. Volumetric measures of MRI segmented white matter signal hyperintensities (WMH) in five different brain regions were related to regional PET glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) in cerebral cortex, MRI measures of regional cortical atrophy, and neuropsychological assessment of executive and memory function. RESULTS: WMH was significantly higher in the prefrontal region compared to the other brain regions. In all subjects, higher frontal and parietal WMH were associated with reduced frontal rCMRglc, whereas occipitotemporal WMH was only marginally associated with frontal rCMRglc. These associations were stronger and more widely distributed in nondemented subjects where reduced frontal rCMRglc was correlated with WMH for all regions measured. In contrast, there was no relationship between WMH in any brain region and rCMRglc in either parietal or occipitotemporal regions. WMHs in all brain regions were associated with low executive scores in nondemented subjects. CONCLUSIONS: The frontal lobes are most severely affected by SIVD. WMHs are more abundant in the frontal region. Regardless of where in the brain these WMHs are located, they are associated with frontal hypometabolism and executive dysfunction."	2004	Jul-27	63	2	246-53	15277616	0
810	"Turco, SJ"	Structure of the major carbohydrate fragment of the Leishmania donovani lipophosphoglycan	Biochemistry	"The major carbohydrate fragment from the lipophosphoglycan of Leishmania donovani was generated by mild acid hydrolysis (0.02 N HCl, 5 min, 100 degrees C) and purified by chromatography on DE-52 cellulose and thin layer. By a combination of analyses including gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and 1H NMR, the structure of the fragment was elucidated as PO4----6Gal(beta 1----4)Man. Approximately 16 of these phosphorylated disaccharide units occur in the overall glycoconjugate structure. NMR analysis of an alkaline phosphatase treated phosphorylated tetrasaccharide generated from lipophosphoglycan showed that the phosphorylated disaccharide units are linked together via alpha-glycosidic linkages. Complete characterization of the phosphorylated disaccharide units of lipophosphoglycan provides the first example of a defined carbohydrate anchored in membranes by a derivative of phosphatidylinositol."	1987	Sep-22	26	19	6233-8	3689770	0
811	"Turco, SJ"	Structure of the phosphosaccharide-inositol core of the Leishmania donovani lipophosphoglycan	J Biol Chem	"The phosphosaccharide-inositol core of the lipophosphoglycan of Leishmania donovani was generated by treatment of the glycoconjugate with mild acid and digestion with phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C. The core was purified and examined by one- and two-dimensional 1H-1H NMR and by methylation analysis. From the results, the carbohydrate core was elucidated as a phosphosaccharide attached to the inositol residue of the lyso-alkylphosphatidylinositol anchor of lipophosphoglycan as follows: PO4----6GalP(alpha 1----6)GalP(alpha 1----3)Galf(alpha 1----3)ManP(alpha 1----3)ManP(alpha 1----4)GlcNP(alpha 1----6)myo-inositol. The presence of an internal galactofuranose residue is highly unusual and the ManP(alpha 1----4)GlcNP(alpha 1----6)myo-inositol sequence is homologous to the respective portion of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchors reported for both the Trypanosoma brucei variant surface glycoprotein and the rat brain Thy-1 glycoprotein."	1989	Apr-25	264	12	6711-5	2708338	0
812	"Twomey, J and Taylor, ME"	A survey of public knowledge and beliefs on food	Practitioner		1978	Aug	221	1322	257-9	724621	0
813	"Van Coillie, E"	"Functional comparison of two human monocyte chemotactic protein-2 isoforms, role of the amino-terminal pyroglutamic acid and processing by CD26/dipeptidyl peptidase IV"	Biochemistry	"Human Monocyte Chemotactic Protein (MCP)-2 has originally been isolated from stimulated osteosarcoma cells as a chemokine coproduced with MCP-1 and MCP-3. Here, a 5'-end extended MCP-2 cDNA was cloned from a human testis cDNA library. It encoded a 76 residue MCP-2 protein, but differed from the reported bone marrow-derived MCP-2 cDNA sequence in codon 46, which coded for a Lys instead of a Gln. This MCP-2Lys46 variant, caused by a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), was biologically compared with MCP-2Gln46. The coding regions were subcloned into the bacterial expression vector pHEN1, and after transformation of Escherichia coli, the two MCP-2 protein variants were recovered from the periplasm. The recombinant proteins were purified to homogeneity by heparin-Sepharose affinity chromatography and reversed-phase HPLC. Edman degradation revealed a Gln residue at the NH2 terminus instead of a pGlu. To evaluate the influence of the cyclization, this Gln was chemically converted into pGlu in both MCP-2 variants. The conversion was confirmed by electrospray mass spectrometry. rMCP-2Gln46 and rMCP-2Lys46 and the NH2-terminal cyclic counterparts were tested on monocytic cells in calcium mobilization and chemotaxis assays. No significant difference in biological activity was observed between the rMCP-2Gln46 and rMCP-2Lys46 isoforms. However, for both MCP-2 variants the NH2-terminal pyroglutamate was shown to be essential for chemotaxis, but not for calcium mobilization. NH2-terminal truncation of rMCP-2Lys46 by the serine protease CD26/dipeptidyl peptidase IV (CD26/DPP IV) resulted in the cleavage of the NH2-terminal Gln-Pro dipeptide, whereas synthetic MCP-2 with an amino-terminal pGlu remained unaffected. CD26/DPP IV-clipped rMCP-2Lys46(3-76) was almost completely inactive in both chemotaxis and signaling assays. These observations indicate that the NH2-terminal pGlu in MCP-2 is necessary for chemotactic activity but also that it protects the protein against degradation by CD26/DPP IV."	1998	Sep-08	37	36	12672-80	9730840	0
814	"van den Broek, LA"	Synthesis of alpha-glucosidase I inhibitors showing antiviral (HIV-1) and immunosuppressive activity	J Pharm Pharmacol	"The synthesis of a series of analogues of the monosaccharide alpha-glucosidase I inhibitor N-decyl-1-deoxynojirimycin (1) is described. With the incorporation of a single oxygen atom particularly at position seven in the N-decyl side chain, i.e. to give N-7-oxadecyl-dNM (4), the therapeutic ratio (alpha-glucosidase I inhibitory activity over toxicity in HepG2 cells) increases considerably. N-7-Oxadecyl-dNM inhibits purified porcine liver alpha-glucosidase I with an IC50 value of 0.28 microM. The position of the oxygen atom in the N-decyl side chain is of importance since N-3-oxadecyl-dNM is less active and, moreover, is toxic to HepG2 cells at 3 mM. Subsequently, the synthesis of a disaccharide inhibitor of alpha-glucosidase I is described. The aminodisaccharide ManNH2 alpha 1,2Glc (12) inhibits alpha-glucosidase I with an IC50 value of 15.7 microM. Two closely related monosaccharide derivatives of 12 did not inhibit the enzyme at low microM concentrations (no inhibition at 5 microM), showing the additional effect of binding of the aglycon fragment of the molecule to the active site of alpha-glucosidase I. Next, the N-alkyl-dNM derivatives were analysed for antiviral and immunomodulatory activity in-vitro. It is found that the most potent alpha-glucosidase I inhibitor from this study, N-7-oxadecyl-dNM (4) inhibits HIV-1 induced syncytia formation and lymphocyte proliferation in-vitro. Finally, compound 4 was also investigated in-vivo. N-7-Oxadecyl-dNM (4) reduced adjuvant-induced arthritis in rats making this compound a potential candidate for treating autoimmune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis."	1996	Feb	48	2	172-8	8935166	0
815	"Van den Steen, P"	Oligosaccharides of recombinant mouse gelatinase B variants	Biochim Biophys Acta	"Gelatinase B (matrix metalloproteinase-9, MMP-9) contains three N-glycosylation sites and a Ser/Thr/Pro-rich type V collagen domain with repetitive attachment sites for O-linked sugars. Recombinant mouse gelatinase B was expressed in the yeast Pichia pastoris and the N-linked oligosaccharides of the truncated glycoprotein variants were analysed by in gel enzymatic release followed by mass spectrometry and normal phase HPLC. This technology, despite of the limiting amount of material, allowed the analysis of the formula of N- and O-linked sugars of the different glycoprotein variants. The 112/99- and 88-kDa gelatinase B forms each contained an oligomannose series (Man8GlcNAc2 to Man15GlcNAc2). Analysis of the hydrazine-released sugars showed that the O-linked oligosaccharides contained alpha1-2, alpha1-3 or alpha1-6 linked mannoses. These results were confirmed by lectin blot analysis of intact and glycosidase-treated enzyme variants."	1998	Nov-27	1425	3	587-98	9838222	0
816	"Van den Steen, P"	Concepts and principles of O-linked glycosylation	Crit Rev Biochem Mol Biol	"The biosynthesis, structures, and functions of O-glycosylation, as a complex posttranslational event, is reviewed and compared for the various types of O-glycans. Mucin-type O-glycosylation is initiated by tissue-specific addition of a GalNAc-residue to a serine or a threonine of the fully folded protein. This event is dependent on the primary, secondary, and tertiary structure of the glycoprotein. Further elongation and termination by specific transferases is highly regulated. We also describe some of the physical and biological properties that O-glycosylation confers on the protein to which the sugars are attached. These include providing the basis for rigid conformations and for protein stability. Clustering of O-glycans in Ser/Thr(/Pro)-rich domains allows glycan determinants such as sialyl Lewis X to be presented as multivalent ligands, essential for functional recognition. An additional level of regulation, imposed by exon shuffling and alternative splicing of mRNA, results in the expression of proteins that differ only by the presence or absence of Ser/Thr(/Pro)-rich domains. These domains may serve as protease-resistant spacers in cell surface glycoproteins. Further biological roles for O-glycosylation discussed include the role of isolated mucin-type O-glycans in recognition events (e.g., during fertilization and in the immune response) and in the modulation of the activity of enzymes and signaling molecules. In some cases, the O-linked oligosaccharides are necessary for glycoprotein expression and processing. In contrast to the more common mucin-type O-glycosylation, some specific types of O-glycosylation, such as the O-linked attachment of fucose and glucose, are sequon dependent. The reversible attachment of O-linked GlcNAc to cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins is thought to play a regulatory role in protein function. The recent development of novel technologies for glycan analysis promises to yield new insights in the factors that determine site occupancy, structure-function relationship, and the contribution of O-linked sugars to physiological and pathological processes. These include diseases where one or more of the O-glycan processing enzymes are aberrantly regulated or deficient, such as HEMPAS and cancer."	1998		33	3	151-208	9673446	292
817	"Van den Steen, P"	Cytokine and protease glycosylation as a regulatory mechanism in inflammation and autoimmunity	Adv Exp Med Biol	"Cytokines are locally produced hormones that alert the innate and specific immune systems. Many cytokines induce, enhance and govern the traffic of leukocytes. An important mechanism in cell trafficking and migration through endothelial basement membranes and connective tissues is the cytokine-regulated production of matrix degrading proteases. The latter include the serine proteinases of plasminogen activation and metalloproteinases such as collagenases, stromelysins and gelatinases. Many cytokines and all known matrix proteinases are glycoproteins and thus occur as sets of glycoforms. The relation between structures and functions of these glycoproteins has already been probed extensively at the protein level but not yet at the carbohydrate level. Attached oligosaccharides target the cytokines and proteinases to specific cellular receptors and matrix binding sites. In addition, a number of cytokines possess lectin-like functions and may thus interact with carbohydrates of the host or parasites. These intermolecular interactions influence for instance the compartmentalisation, the cell- and tissue-specific distribution and the pharmacokinetics of cytokines and proteinases. Attempts were done to deduce structure-function rules for the intramolecular effects of carbohydrates on cytokines and matrix proteinases. The relatively voluminous N-linked sugars downmodulate the specific activities of enzymes and cytokines. Because in host stress reactions (infection, inflammation, trauma) N-linked glycosylation is less efficient, glycosylation may constitute an important regulatory mechanism in the cytokine network and in multi-enzyme cascades."	1998		435		133-43	9498072	0
818	"Van den Steen, PE"	"Matrix remodelling enzymes, the protease cascade and glycosylation"	Biochim Biophys Acta	"Glycosylation influences the specific activities of serine proteases including tissue-type plasminogen activator and plasmin which act together in a ternary complex with fibrin. Serine proteases and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), including gelatinase B, participate in a protease cascade to remodel the extracellular matrix. In addition to the recognition and targeting functions of carbohydrates and the fact that they confer protease resistance on glycoproteins, oligosaccharides may extend particular protein domains of matrix remodelling enzymes and fine-control their activities within the context of the extracellular matrix. For example, the sialic acids of gelatinase B influence the catalytic activity of this enzyme in a complex with the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1)."	2001	Oct-03	1528	02-Mar	61-73	11687291	0
819	"Van den Steen, PE"	Biochemistry and molecular biology of gelatinase B or matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9)	Crit Rev Biochem Mol Biol	"The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) form an enzyme family of which gelatinase B (MMP-9) represents the largest and most complex member. We focus here on the biochemical properties, regulation, and functions of gelatinase B. The tight regulation of gelatinase B activity is highly complex and is established at five different levels. The transcription of the gelatinase B-gene depends on various cis-elements in its gene promotor and is induced or repressed by a large variety of soluble factors, including cytokines, growth factors, and hormones and by cellular contacts acting through specific signaling pathways. The specific regulation of its secretion occurs in cells storing gelatinase B in granules. After secretion, progelatinase B must be activated through an activation network. The enzyme activity is further regulated by inhibition and by other mechanisms, such as fine-tuning and stabilization by glycosylation. The ability of gelatinase B to degrade components of the extracellular matrix and to regulate the activity of a number of soluble proteins confers an important role in various physiological and pathological processes. These include reproduction, growth, development, inflammation, and vascular and proliferative diseases."	2002	Dec	37	6	375-536	12540195	0
820	"Van den Steen, PE"	The hemopexin and O-glycosylated domains tune gelatinase B/MMP-9 bio-availability via inhibition and binding to cargo receptors	J Biol Chem	"Gelatinase B/matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), a key regulator and effector of immunity, contains a C-terminal hemopexin domain preceded by a unique linker sequence of ~64 amino acid residues. This linker sequence is demonstrated to be an extensively O-glycosylated (OG) domain with a compact 3D structure. The OG and hemopexin domains have no influence on the cleavage efficiency of MMP-9 substrates. In contrast, the hemopexin domain contains a binding site for the cargo receptor lipoprotein receptor related protein-1 (LRP-1). Furthermore, megalin/LRP-2 is identified as a new functional receptor for the hemopexin domain of MMP-9, able to mediate the endocytosis and catabolism of the enzyme. The OG domain is required to correctly orient the hemopexin domain for inhibition by TIMP-1 and internalisation by LRP-1 and megalin. Therefore, the OG and hemopexin domains downregulate the bio-availability of active MMP-9 and the interactions with the cargo receptors are proposed to be the original function of hemopexin domains in MMPs."	2006	May-03				16672230	0
821	"van der Spoel, AC"	Reversible infertility in male mice after oral administration of alkylated imino sugars: a nonhormonal approach to male contraception	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"During mammalian spermatogenesis, male germ cells undergo a dramatic transformation, which includes a change of shape, nuclear condensation, and development of specialised structures, such as an acrosome, and a flagellum with a mitochondrial sheath. We have found a previously undescribed pharmacological approach to intervene in these events. After oral administration of the alkylated imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) to mice, epididymal spermatozoa displayed a spectrum of abnormal head shapes, and acrosomal antigens were mostly absent or displayed irregular patterns. In addition, the mitochondria of these cells often had an aberrant morphology, and were arranged in relatively short and wide mitochondrial sheaths. The motility of the affected spermatozoa was severely impaired. After 3 weeks of administration of NB-DNJ, male mice became sterile, and regained their fertility during the fourth week off drug. The NB-DNJ-induced infertility was not associated with a reduction in the serum testosterone level. Biochemically, the capacity of imino sugars to impair spermatogenesis was associated with their potential to attenuate the biosynthesis of glucosylceramide-based sphingolipids. Our study reveals that male fertility is affected by partial glycosphingolipid depletion, or, alternatively, by a distinct as yet unidentified property that is shared by alkylated imino sugars that inhibit glucosylceramide biosynthesis. These compounds therefore may be new leads in the development of a male contraceptive, especially because NB-DNJ has already been through extensive evaluation in various mammals, including man."	2002	Dec-24	99	26	17173-8	12477936	0
822	"van Schravendijk, MR and Dwek, RA"	The use of protein A and concanavalin A to examine the possible role of the carbohydrate of IgG in the binding of Clq	Mol Immunol		1981	Dec	18	12	1079-85	6977701	0
823	"Van Schravendijk, MR and Dwek, RA"	Interaction of C1q with DNA	Mol Immunol	"With the aim of clarifying the relationship between the activation of the first component of complement (C1) by immunoglobulin and by polyanions, the mode of interaction of C1q with DNA was investigated by structural and inhibition studies. DNA inhibits C1q binding to IgG immune complexes (ICs) through binding to C1q rather than to IgG, as seen from two lines of evidence. Firstly, DNA does not bind to ICs under conditions where full binding to C1q is observed. Secondly, at I - 0.15, DNA inhibits more strongly when mixed first with C1q rather than with ICs. The inhibition of C1q-IgG binding by DNA is subject to kinetic factors. Firstly, DNA is not an effective inhibitor if added after C1q has bound to ICs. This at least in part reflects a portion of the IgG-bound C1q that exchanges only very slowly with free C1q. Secondly, the relative rates of association of C1q to DNA and ICs at different ionic strengths are important in determining whether inhibition is observed. The existence of a kinetic effect in the inhibition by DNA means that inhibition experiments cannot be used to establish whether DNa binds to the same site on C1q as IgG. This question was therefore approached by structural studies. Precipitation of C1q with DNA was greatly diminished by heat or pH 4.45 denaturation of C1q, by pepsin digestion to remove the globular heads, and by limited modification with 1, 2-cyclohexanedione. In contrast, extensive modification with methyl acetimidate only had a limited effect. In these respects the structural requirements for C1q-DNA precipitation were similar to those for C1q-Igg binding, as would be consistent with binding of DNA and IgG to nearby or overlapping sites on C1q. In view of residual DNA-precipitating activity in the pepsin fragment preparation of C1q, there is the possibility that there are additional DNA sites on the collagenous tails."	1982	Sep	19	9	1179-87	6983028	0
824	"Verrey, F"	Endocytosis via coated pits mediated by glycoprotein receptor in which the cytoplasmic tail is replaced by unrelated sequences	Cell Regul	"Rat 6 fibroblast cell lines expressing wild-type chicken liver glycoprotein receptor (CHL) or chimeric receptors with alternate cytoplasmic tails were produced to study the role of the cytoplasmic tail in mediating receptor localization in coated pits and endocytosis of ligand. Cells expressing CHL or cells expressing a hybrid receptor that contains the cytoplasmic tail of the asialoglycoprotein receptor display high-efficiency endocytosis of N-acetylglucosamine-conjugated bovine serum albumin in experiments designed to measure an initial internalization step, as well as in studies of continuous uptake and degradation. Substitution of the cytoplasmic tail by the equivalent domain of rat Na,K-ATPase beta subunit or by a stretch of Xenopus laevis globin beta chain does not abolish endocytosis but decreases the endocytosis rate constant from 15%-16%/min to 2.4% and 6.5%/min, respectively. Electron microscopy was used to visualize the glycoprotein binding sites at the surface of Rat 6 cells transfected with the various receptors. The percentage of receptors found in coated areas ranged from 32% for CHL to 9% for the Na,K-ATPase hybrid, indicating that clustering in coated pits correlates with efficiency of endocytosis. We concluded that replacement of the CHL cytoplasmic tail with unrelated sequences does not prevent, but decreases to varying extents, coated-pit localization and endocytosis efficiency. The construct with NH2-terminal globin tail lacks a signal for high-efficiency localization in coated pits but nevertheless is directed to the pits by an alternative mechanism."	1990	May	1	6	471-86	1963794	0
825	"Verrey, F and Drickamer, K"	Determinants of oligomeric structure in the chicken liver glycoprotein receptor	Biochem J	"The oligomeric state of the chicken liver receptor (chicken hepatic lectin), which mediates endocytosis of glycoproteins terminating with N-acetylglucosamine, has been investigated using physical methods as well as chemical cross-linking. Receptor isolated from liver and from transfected rat fibroblasts expressing the full-length polypeptide is a homotrimer immediately following solubilization in non-ionic detergent, but forms the previously observed hexamer during purification. These results are most consistent with the presence of a trimer of receptor polypeptides in liver membranes and in transfected cells. Analysis of truncated receptors reveals that the C-terminal extracellular portion of this type-II transmembrane protein does not form stable oligomers when isolated from the membrane anchor and cytoplasmic tail. The behaviour of chimeric receptors, in which the cytoplasmic tail of the glycoprotein receptor is replaced with the corresponding segments of rat liver asialoglycoprotein receptor or the beta-subunit of Na+,K(+)-ATPase, or with unrelated sequences from globin, indicates that the cytoplasmic tail influences oligomer stability. Replacement of N-terminal portions of the receptor with corresponding segments of influenza virus neuraminidase results in formation of tetramers, suggesting that the membrane anchor and flanking sequences are important determinants of oligomer formation."	1993	May-15	292 ( Pt 1)		149-55	8503842	0
826	"von Der Ohe, M"	Localization and characterization of polysialic acid-containing N-linked glycans from bovine NCAM	Glycobiology	"The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) plays important roles during development, plasticity, and regeneration in the adult nervous system. Its function is strongly influenced by attachment of the unusual alpha 2-8-linked polysialic acid (PSA). Here we analyzed the N-glycosylation pattern of polysialylated NCAM from brains of newborn calves. Purified PSA-NCAM glycoprotein was digested with trypsin, and PSA-glycopeptides were separated by immunoaffinity chromatography. For determining the N-glycosylation sites, PNGase F-treated glycopeptides were analyzed by Edman degradation and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS). They were found to be exclusively linked to the fifth (Asn 439) and sixth (Asn 468) N-glycosylation sites in the fifth immunoglobulin-like domain of NCAM. The chain length of PSA consisted of at least 30 sialic acid residues, as shown by anion exchange chromatography. For analysis of the core structures, endoneuraminidase N-treated PSA-NCAM was separated by SDS-PAGE and digested with PNGase F. The core structures of polysialylated glycans were characterized by MALDI-MS combined with exoglycosidase digestions and chromatographic fractionation. They include hybrid, di-, tri-, and small amounts of tetraantennary carbohydrates, which were all fucosylated at the innermost N-acetylglucosamine. For the triantennary glycans, the ""2,6"" arm was preferred in polysialylated structures. High levels of sulfated groups were found on polysialylated structures and to a lower extent also on nonpolysialylated glycans. In addition, high-mannose-type glycans could be detected on PSA-NCAM glycoforms ranging from (GlcNAc)(2)(Man)(5) up to (GlcNAc)(2)(Man)(9). In conclusion, we observed a structural variability and high regional selectivity for the PSA-glycans attached to the NCAM molecule that are most likely influencing its biological functions."	2002	Jan	12	1	47-63	11825886	0
827	"Vouros, P and Harvey, DJ"	Influence of 11-trimethylsilyloxy- or 11-hydroxy-substituents on the electron-impact-induced fragmentation of trimethylsilyl derivatives of some androstanols	J Chem Soc [Perkin 1]		1973		7		727-32	4736202	0
828	"Vouros, P and Harvey, DJ"	Method for selective introduction of trimethylsilyl and perdeuterotrimethylsilyl groups in hydroxy steroids and its utility in mass spectrometric interpretations	Anal Chem		1973	Jan	45	1	07-Dec	4682289	0
829	"Vouros, P and Harvey, DJ"	The electron impact induced cleavage of the C-17--C-20 bond and D-ring in trimethylsilyl derivatives of C21 steroids. Reciprocal exchange of trimethylsilyl groups	Biomed Mass Spectrom	The cleavage of the C-17--C-20 bond in the trimethylsilyl derivatives of C21 steroids has been investigated with the aid of isotopic labelling. A significant amount of reciprocal exchange was observed between trimethylsilyl groups or hydrogen atoms on the 20-O- and 17-O-positions. The loss of positional identity of these groups was found to influence the specificity of fragmentation reactions associated with the 17 beta-sidechain and the D-ring. It is supposed that the interchange of these silyl groups is facilitated by donation of the non-bonding electrons on oxygen to the empty d orbitals of silicon.	1980	May	7	5	217-25	7417699	0
830	"Wain-Hobson, S"	Specificity of interactions of hapten side chains with the combining site of the myeloma protein MOPC 315	Biochem J	"The pKa values of the three histidine residues in the Fv fragment (variable region of the heavy and light chains) of the mouse myeloma protein MOPC 315, measured by high resolution n.m.r. (nuclear magnetic resonance), are 5.9, 6.9 and 8.2. The perturbation of the pKa of one of the histidines (pKa 6.9) on the addition of hapten and the narrow linewidth of its proton resonances suggests that it is at the edge of the combining site. References to the model of the Fv fragment [Padlan, Davies, Pecht, Givol & Wright (1976) Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol. 41, in the press] allows assignment of the three histidine residues, histidine-102H, histidine-97L and histidine-44L. The determination of the pKa of the phosphorus group, by 31P n.m.r., of a homologous series of Dnp- and Tnp- (di- and tri-nitrophenyl) haptens has located a positively charged residue. Molecular-model studies on the conformations of these haptens show that the residue is at the edge of the site. The model suggests that the positively charged residue is either arginine-95L or lysine-52H."	1977	Aug-01	165	2	227-35	921746	0
831	"Walden, CM"	Long-term non-hormonal male contraception in mice using N-butyldeoxynojirimycin	Hum Reprod	"BACKGROUND: The imino sugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) causes reversible infertility in male mice. This compound may have promise as a male contraceptive, because it is already in clinical use, for a non-reproductive condition. As contraceptives need to be taken for extended periods of time, it was essential to evaluate NB-DNJ for its reproductive effects over a long period of administration. METHODS: We have assessed the imino sugar for its long-term effects on the fertility of male C57BL/6 mice, reversibility and potential cumulative toxicity by monitoring various reproductive and systemic parameters over 12 months. RESULTS: Long-term low-dose (15 mg/kg/day) administration of NB-DNJ was sufficient to maintain infertility in male mice. In contrast to short-term drug treatment, imino sugar exposure for more than 3 months resulted in reduced sperm counts. Male mice that had been administered imino sugar for 6, 10 or 12 months and were then maintained without drug administration regained their fertility within 9 weeks after withdrawal of the drug. Prolonged NB-DNJ intake did not affect reproductive hormone levels, serum biochemistry or animal behaviour. CONCLUSION: Low-dose treatment with NB-DNJ over a long period is an effective approach for the regulation of fertility in a male mammal by non-hormonal means, without causing overt adverse effects."	2006	May	21	5	1309-15	16396932	0
832	"Wallis, R and Drickamer, K"	Asymmetry adjacent to the collagen-like domain in rat liver mannose-binding protein	Biochem J	"Rat liver mannose-binding protein (MBP-C) is the smallest known member of the collectin family of animal lectins, many of which are involved in defence against microbial pathogens. It consists of an N-terminal collagen-like domain linked to C-terminal carbohydrate-recognition domains. MBP-C, overproduced in Chinese-hamster ovary cells, is post-translationally modified and processed in a manner similar to the native lectin. Analytical ultracentrifugation experiments indicate that MBP-C is trimeric, with a weight-averaged molecular mass of approx. 77 kDa. The rate of sedimentation of MBP-C and its mobility on gel filtration suggest a highly elongated molecule. Anomalous behaviour on gel filtration due to this extended conformation may explain previous suggestions that MBP-C forms a higher oligomer. The polypeptide chains of the MBP-C trimer are linked by disulphide bonds between two cysteine residues at the N-terminal junction of the collagen-like domain. Analysis of an N-terminal tryptic fragment reveals that the disulphide bonding in MBP-C is heterogeneous and asymmetrical. These results indicate that assembly of MBP-C oligomers probably proceeds in a C- to N-terminal direction: trimerization at the C-terminus is followed by assembly of the collagenous domain and finally formation of N-terminal disulphide bonds. The relatively simple organization of MBP-C provides a template for understanding larger, more complex collectins."	1997	Jul-15	325 ( Pt 2)		391-400	9230118	0
833	"Wallis, R and Drickamer, K"	Molecular determinants of oligomer formation and complement fixation in mannose-binding proteins	J Biol Chem	"Rat serum mannose-binding protein (MBP-A) functions as part of the innate immune system by targetting complement toward potentially pathogenic microorganisms. In order to examine the molecular basis for complement activation, rat MBP-A has been overproduced in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Recombinant protein is post-translationally modified in the same way as the native lectin. Hydrodynamic studies indicate that MBP-A consists predominantly of covalent oligomers containing one to four copies of a subunit that comprises a trimer of polypeptides. These oligomers are non-interconverting and do not assemble into higher order structures at concentrations in excess of those normally found in serum. Disulfide bonds formed between cysteine residues at the N-terminal end of the collagen-like domain link polypeptides to form covalent oligomers. Analysis of wild-type MBP-A and MBP-A containing the substitution Cys6 --> Ser suggests that polypeptides within each trimeric structural unit are mostly linked by disulfide bonds between cysteine residues at positions 13 and 18 arranged in an asymmetrical configuration. Disulfide bonds involving Cys6 connect polypeptides within separate trimers. Analysis of chimeras between MBP-A and rat liver MBP (MBP-C) indicates that residues within the N-terminal region of the collagenous domain and the cysteine-rich domain of MBP-A enable assembly of trimers into higher order oligomers. The activity of MBP-A in a hemolytic complement fixation assay using mannan-coated sheep erythrocytes was approximately 20-fold greater than the activity of MBP-C. Analysis of the MBP chimeras and isolated oligomers of MBP-A reveals that the larger oligomers are more efficient at complement activation. These data indicate that the overall complement fixing activity of MBP-A is a function of the individual molecular activities of oligomers and their relative abundance within the serum."	1999	Feb-05	274	6	3580-9	9920905	0
834	"Wallis, R"	Localization of the serine protease-binding sites in the collagen-like domain of mannose-binding protein: indirect effects of naturally occurring mutations on protease binding and activation	J Biol Chem	"Mutations in the collagen-like domain of serum mannose-binding protein (MBP) interfere with the ability of the protein to initiate complement fixation through the MBP-associated serine proteases (MASPs). The resulting deficiency in the innate immune response leads to susceptibility to infections. Studies have been undertaken to define the region of MBP that interacts with MASPs and to determine how the naturally occurring mutations affect this interaction. Truncated and modified MBPs and synthetic peptides that represent segments of the collagen-like domain of MBP have been used to demonstrate that MASPs bind on the C-terminal side of the hinge region formed by an interruption in the Gly-X-Y repeat pattern of the collagen-like domain. The binding sites for MASP-2 and for MASP-1 and -3 overlap but are not identical. The two most common naturally occurring mutations in MBP result in substitution of acidic amino acids for glycine residues in Gly-X-Y triplets on the N-terminal side of the hinge. Circular dichroism analysis and differential scanning calorimetry demonstrate that the triple helical structure of the collagen-like domain is largely intact in the mutant proteins, but it is more easily unfolded than in wild-type MBP. Thus, the effect of the mutations is to destabilize the collagen-like domain, indirectly disrupting the binding sites for MASPs. In addition, at least one of the mutations has a further effect on the ability of MBP to activate MASPs."	2004	Apr-02	279	14	14065-73	14724269	0
835	"Walsh, FS"	Tissue specific O-linked glycosylation of the neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM)	Development	"We have shown previously that the predominant N-CAM isoform in skeletal muscle myotubes contains as a result of alternative splicing a novel domain (MSD1) in its extracellular region. Here we show that this region represents a site for O-linked carbohydrate attachment. The lipid tailed N-CAM in myotubes was found to bind peanut lectin while the transmembrane isoform from myoblasts lacking MSD1 did not. In addition, N-CAM from a variety of neural sources failed to bind the lectin. Analysis of 3T3 fibroblasts transfected with various N-CAM cDNAs, showed that peanut lectin binding was correlated specifically with the expression of the MSD1 region. The oligosaccharides isolated from a purified preparation of myotube N-CAM were shown to contain an O-linked oligosaccharide whose core structure was a sialylated version of Gal beta 1----3GalNac which is the structure recognized specifically by peanut lectin. These data provide the first evidence for the expression of O-linked carbohydrate on any N-CAM isoform and more specifically target this oligosaccharide to the MSD1 region of myotube N-CAM."	1989	Apr	105	4	803-11	2598815	0
836	"Wang, M"	Preferential isolation of fragmented DNA enhances the detection of circulating mutated k-ras DNA	Clin Chem		2004	Jan	50	1	211-3	14709652	0
837	"Ward, EM"	Polymorphisms in human langerin affect stability and sugar binding activity	J Biol Chem	"Langerhans cells are specialized skin dendritic cells that take up and degrade antigens for presentation to the immune system. Langerin, a cell surface C-type lectin of Langerhans cells, can be internalized and accumulates in Birbeck granules, subdomains of the endosomal recycling compartment that are specific to Langerhans cells. Langerin binds and mediates uptake and degradation of glycoconjugates containing mannose and related sugars. Analysis of the human genome has identified three single nucleotide polymorphisms that result in amino acid changes in the carbohydrate-recognition domain of langerin. The effects of the amino acid changes on the activity of langerin were examined by expressing each of the polymorphic forms. Expression of full-length versions of the four common langerin haplotypes in fibroblasts revealed that all of these forms can mediate endocytosis of neoglycoprotein ligands. However, sugar binding assays and differential scanning calorimetry performed on fragments from the extracellular domain showed that two of the amino acid changes reduce the affinity of the carbohydrate-recognition domain for mannose and decrease the stability of the extracellular domain. In addition, analysis of sugar binding by langerin containing the rare W264R mutation, previously identified in an individual lacking Birbeck granules, shows that this mutation abolishes sugar binding activity. These findings suggest that certain langerin haplotypes may differ in their binding to pathogens and thus might be associated with susceptibility to infection."	2006	Jun-02	281	22	15450-6	16567809	0
838	"Watson, M"	Sugar printing rheumatic diseases: a potential method for disease differentiation using immunoglobulin G oligosaccharides	Arthritis Rheum	"OBJECTIVE: To look for oligosaccharide structural variants of IgG that may be unique to specific rheumatic diseases. METHODS: Using normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography technology, a comparison was made of the oligosaccharide pools released from serum IgG from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) (n = 10), ankylosing spondylitis (AS) (n = 10), primary Sjogren's syndrome (n = 6), juvenile chronic arthritis (JCA) (n = 13), psoriatic arthritis (n = 9), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) (n = 5), and healthy control individuals (n = 19). RESULTS: The oligosaccharide pools were resolved into 13 peaks and the relative proportions of the peaks in each disease group was significantly different from that in healthy controls (P < 0.0001-0.05). A characteristic serum IgG oligosaccharide profile, or sugar print, for each of the rheumatic diseases was found. The sugar prints exhibited a range of glycosylation patterns whereby all RA (P < 0.0001) and JCA (P < 0.006) patients had predominantly agalactosyl structures, while SLE (P < 0.03-0.0001) and AS (P < 0.025-0.0001) patients had predominantly digalactosyl structures. CONCLUSION: The data suggest that each disease is associated with a specific mechanism that gives rise to alterations in the normal glycosylation pattern of IgG. Sugar printing of IgG is therefore a potential means for the differentiation of rheumatic diseases and may provide insight into disease pathogenesis."	1999	Aug	42	8	1682-90	10446868	0
839	"Wearsch, PA"	Major histocompatibility complex class I molecules expressed with monoglucosylated N-linked glycans bind calreticulin independently of their assembly status	J Biol Chem	"The assembly of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules with peptides in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a critical step in the presentation of viral antigens to CD8+ T cells. This process is subject to quality control restrictions that prevent free class I heavy chains (HCs) and peptide-free HC-beta(2)-microglobulin (beta(2)m) dimers from exiting the ER. The lectin-like chaperone calreticulin associates with HC-beta(2)m heterodimers prior to peptide binding, but its precise role in regulating the subsequent events of peptide association and ER to Golgi transport remains undefined. In vitro analysis of the assembly process has been limited by the specificity of calreticulin for monoglucosylated N-linked glycans, which are transient biosynthetic intermediates. To address this problem, we developed a novel expression system using Saccharomyces cerevisiae glycosylation mutants to produce class I HC bearing N-linked oligosaccharides with the specific structure Glc(1)Man(9)GlcNAc(2). The monoglucosylated glycan proved to be both necessary and sufficient for in vitro binding of calreticulin to MHC class I molecules. Calreticulin bound as efficiently to peptide-loaded MHC class I complexes as it did to folding intermediates created in vitro, namely free class I HC and empty HC-beta(2)m heterodimers. Thus, calreticulin is unable to discriminate between native and non-native MHC class I conformations and therefore unlikely to play a role in the recognition and release of peptide-loaded complexes from the ER. Furthermore, the recombinant expression system developed in this study can be used to produce a broad range of calreticulin substrates to elucidate its general mechanism of activity in vitro."	2004	Jun-11	279	24	25112-21	15056662	0
840	"Wei, X"	Viral dynamics in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection	Nature	"The dynamics of HIV-1 replication in vivo are largely unknown yet they are critical to our understanding of disease pathogenesis. Experimental drugs that are potent inhibitors of viral replication can be used to show that the composite lifespan of plasma virus and virus-producing cells is remarkably short (half-life approximately 2 days). Almost complete replacement of wild-type virus in plasma by drug-resistant variants occurs after fourteen days, indicating that HIV-1 viraemia is sustained primarily by a dynamic process involving continuous rounds of de novo virus infection and replication and rapid cell turnover."	1995	Jan-12	373	6510	117-22	7529365	0
841	"Weis, WI"	Structure of the calcium-dependent lectin domain from a rat mannose-binding protein determined by MAD phasing	Science	"Calcium-dependent (C-type) animal lectins participate in many cell surface recognition events mediated by protein-carbohydrate interactions. The C-type lectin family includes cell adhesion molecules, endocytic receptors, and extracellular matrix proteins. Mammalian mannose-binding proteins are C-type lectins that function in antibody-independent host defense against pathogens. The crystal structure of the carbohydrate-recognition domain of a rat mannose-binding protein, determined as the holmium-substituted complex by multiwavelength anomalous dispersion (MAD) phasing, reveals an unusual fold consisting of two distinct regions, one of which contains extensive nonregular secondary structure stabilized by two holmium ions. The structure explains the conservation of 32 residues in all C-type carbohydrate-recognition domains, suggesting that the fold seen here is common to these domains. The strong anomalous scattering observed at the Ho LIII edge demonstrates that traditional heavy atom complexes will be generally amenable to the MAD phasing method."	1991	Dec-13	254	5038	1608-15	1721241	0
842	"Weis, WI"	Physical characterization and crystallization of the carbohydrate-recognition domain of a mannose-binding protein from rat	J Biol Chem	"A portion of rat mannose-binding protein A (MBP-A), a Ca(2+)-dependent animal lectin, has been overproduced in a bacterial expression system, biochemically characterized, and crystallized. A fragment corresponding to the COOH-terminal 115 residues of native MBP-A, produced by subtilisin digestion of the bacterially expressed protein, contains the carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD). Gel filtration, chemical cross-linking, and crystallographic self-rotation function analyses indicate that the subtilisin fragment is a dimer, although the complete bacterially expressed fragment, containing the neck and CRD of MBP-A, is a trimer. Crystals of the minimal CRD, obtained only as a complex with a Man6GlcNAc2Asn glycopeptide, diffract to Bragg spacings of at least 1.7 A. Several trivalent lanthanide ions (Ln3+) can substitute for Ca2+, as assessed by their ability to support carbohydrate binding and to protect the CRD from proteolysis in a manner similar to that observed for Ca2+. These assays indicate that Ln2+ binds about 30 times more tightly than Ca2+ to the CRD, and that two Ca2+ or Ln3+ bind to each monomer, a result confirmed by determination of the Ho3+ positions in a Ho(3+)-containing crystal of the CRD. Crystals grown in the presence of Ln3+ belong to different space groups from those obtained with Ca2+ and are therefore not useable for traditional crystallographic phase determination methods, but are well-suited for high resolution structure determination by multiwavelength anomalous dispersion phasing."	1991	Nov-05	266	31	20678-86	1939118	0
843	"Weis, WI"	Structure of a C-type mannose-binding protein complexed with an oligosaccharide	Nature	"C-type (Ca(2+)-dependent) animal lectins such as mannose-binding proteins mediate many cell-surface carbohydrate-recognition events. The crystal structure at 1.7 A resolution of the carbohydrate-recognition domain of rat mannose-binding protein complexed with an oligomannose asparaginyl-oligosaccharide reveals that Ca2+ forms coordination bonds with the carbohydrate ligand. Carbohydrate specificity is determined by a network of coordination and hydrogen bonds that stabilizes the ternary complex of protein, Ca2+ and sugar. Two branches of the oligosaccharide crosslink neighbouring carbohydrate-recognition domains in the crystal, enabling multivalent binding to a single oligosaccharide chain to be visualized directly."	1992	Nov-12	360	6400	127-34	1436090	0
844	"Weis, WI"	Molecular mechanisms of complex carbohydrate recognition at the cell surface	Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol		1992		57		281-9	1339665	0
845	"Weis, WI and Drickamer, K"	Trimeric structure of a C-type mannose-binding protein	Structure	"BACKGROUND: Mannose-binding proteins (MBPs) are C-type (Ca(2+)-dependent) animal lectins found in serum. They recognize cell-surface oligosaccharide structures characteristic of pathogenic bacteria and fungi, and trigger the neutralization of these organisms. Like most lectins, MBPs display weak intrinsic affinity for monovalent sugar ligands, but bind avidly to multivalent ligands. RESULTS: We report physical studies in solution and the crystal structure determined at 1.8 A Bragg spacings of a trimeric fragment of MBP-A, containing the carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) and the neck domain that links the carboxy-terminal CRD to the collagen-like portion of the intact molecule. The neck consists of a parallel triple-stranded coiled coil of alpha-helices linked by four residues to the CRD. The isolated neck peptide does not form stable helices in aqueous solution. The previously characterized carbohydrate-binding sites lie at the distal end of the trimer and are separated from each other by 53 A. CONCLUSIONS: The carbohydrate-binding sites in MBP-A are too far apart for a single trimer to bind multivalently to a typical mammalian high-mannose oligosaccharide. Thus MBPs can recognize pathogens selectively by binding avidly only to the widely spaced, repetitive sugar arrays on pathogenic cell surfaces. Sequence alignments reveal that other C-type lectins are likely to have a similar oligomeric structure, but differences in their detailed organization will have an important role in determining their interactions with oligosaccharides."	1994	Dec-15	2	12	1227-40	7704532	0
846	"Weis, WI and Drickamer, K"	Structural basis of lectin-carbohydrate recognition	Annu Rev Biochem	"Lectins are responsible for cell surface sugar recognition in bacteria, animals, and plants. Examples include bacterial toxins; animal receptors that mediate cell-cell interactions, uptake of glycoconjugates, and pathogen neutralization; and plant toxins and mitogens. The structural basis for selective sugar recognition by members of all of these groups has been investigated by x-ray crystallography. Mechanisms for sugar recognition have evolved independently in diverse protein structural frameworks, but share some key features. Relatively low affinity binding sites for monosaccharides are formed at shallow indentations on protein surfaces. Selectivity is achieved through a combination of hydrogen bonding to the sugar hydroxyl groups with van der Waals packing, often including packing of a hydrophobic sugar face against aromatic amino acid side chains. Higher selectivity of binding is achieved by extending binding sites through additional direct and water-mediated contacts between oligosaccharides and the protein surface. Dramatically increased affinity for oligosaccharides results from clustering of simple binding sites in oligomers of the lectin polypeptides. The geometry of such oligomers helps to establish the ability of the lectins to distinguish surface arrays of polysaccharides in some instances and to crosslink glycoconjugates in others."	1996		65		441-73	8811186	0
847	"Weis, WI"	The C-type lectin superfamily in the immune system	Immunol Rev	"Protein-carbohydrate interactions serve multiple functions in the immune system. Many animal lectins (sugar-binding proteins) mediate both pathogen recognition and cell-cell interactions using structurally related Ca(2+)-dependent carbohydrate-recognition domains (C-type CRDs). Pathogen recognition by soluble collections such as serum mannose-binding protein and pulmonary surfactant proteins, and also the macrophage cell-surface mannose receptor, is effected by binding of terminal monosaccharide residues characteristic of bacterial and fungal cell surfaces. The broad selectivity of the monosaccharide-binding site and the geometrical arrangement of multiple CRDs in the intact lectins explains the ability of the proteins to mediate discrimination between self and non-self. In contrast, the much narrower binding specificity of selectin cell adhesion molecules results from an extended binding site within a single CRD. Other proteins, particularly receptors on the surface of natural killer cells, contain C-type lectin-like domains (CTLDs) that are evolutionarily divergent from the C-type lectins and which would be predicted to function through different mechanisms."	1998	Jun	163		19-34	9700499	0
848	"Weiskopf, AS"	Characterization of oligosaccharide composition and structure by quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	"The use of electrospray ionization-quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry for the characterization of linear oligosaccharides and N-linked protein oligosaccharide mixtures is described. Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) experiments with orders higher than two offer a number of ways to enhance MS/MS spectra and to derive information not present in MS and MS2 spectra. Three such methods are presented in this paper. (a) Collisional activation of permethylated oligosaccharide molecular ions (MS2) as illustrated by maltoheptaose, produces abundant fragments from glycosidic bond cleavages which indicate composition and sequence, and weak cross-ring cleavage products which denote specific linkages within the oligosaccharide. Through the trapping and further dissociation of these fragments (MSn), cross-ring cleavage products can be confirmed and their relative abundances increased to facilitate interpretation. (b) The mechanisms of formation of two isobaric ions or ions isobaric with another ion's isotope peaks, such as those present in the MS2 spectrum of the ribonuclease B oligosaccharide GlcNAc2-Man5 can be independently established by separate MS3 experiments. (c) Ions in the MS2 spectrum, specific for individual components of an isobaric mixture, can be isolated and characterized by further stages of fragmentation. This is illustrated by two isobaric oligosaccharides from chicken ovalbumin of the composition HexNAc5Hex5. These findings indicate the utility of ion trap mass spectrometry towards the facile determination of oligosaccharide composition, sequence, branching and linkage, providing a wealth of structural information not obtainable by other individual methods of carbohydrate mass spectrometric analysis."	1997		11	14	1493-504	9332019	0
849	"Weiskopf, AS"	Electrospray ionization-ion trap mass spectrometry for structural analysis of complex N-linked glycoprotein oligosaccharides	Anal Chem	"Electrospray ionization-ion trap mass spectrometry, with its capacity to perform multiple stages of fragmentation (MSn), is demonstrated as an effective method for the structural characterization of permethylated N-linked complex glycoprotein oligosaccharides. Complex glycan structural features, such as N-acetyllactosamine antenane, neuraminic acids, and nonreducing terminal GlcNAc monosaccharides, commonly suppress cross-ring and core saccharide cleavages in traditional MS/MS experiments. Using ion trap mass spectrometry, removal of these substituents permits determination of branching patterns and intersaccharide linkages by MS3 and MS4. Both sequence and linkage data are obtained for N-acetyllactosamine and sialyl-N-acetyllactosamine oligosaccharide antennae from biantennary glycans using MS3, and the location of a bisecting GlcNAc residue is also established after exposing the core pentasaccharide. Higher-order experiments further illustrate the potential of electrospray ionization-quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry for carbohydrate analysis, as MS8 is used to produce significant and otherwise unobtainable branching information for an oligosaccharide from chicken ovalbumin. These studies constitute further evidence of the unique role that ion trap mass spectrometry can assume in the area of oligosaccharide analysis."	1998	Oct-15	70	20	4441-7	9796427	306
850	"Wheeler, SF and Harvey, DJ"	Negative ion mass spectrometry of sialylated carbohydrates: discrimination of N-acetylneuraminic acid linkages by MALDI-TOF and ESI-TOF mass spectrometry	Anal Chem	"Negative ion MALDI and electrospray fragmentation spectra were recorded from 12 sialylated carbohydrates ranging from trisaccharides to biantennary N-linked glycans. D-Arabinosazone was found to be the most satisfactory MALDI matrix for these compounds. Fragmentation mechanisms were investigated with the aid of several synthesized analogues of the sugars labeled with 13C and 2H. The substitution position of the sialic acid (alpha2-->3 or alpha2-->6) was found to have a dramatic effect on the overall fragmentation pattern of these compounds, and several features of the spectra were identified that allowed the substitution pattern to be determined. In particular, the appearance of an ion at m/z 306 appeared to be diagnostic of the presence of an alpha2-->6-linked sialic acid. Selection and further fragmentation of the in-source (conevoltage) fragment ion corresponding to the trisaccharide Neu5Acalpha2-->3(or 6)Galbeta1-->4GlcNAc from larger, N-linked glycans, ionized by electrospray, gave fragmentation patterns identical to those of the reference trisaccharides, thus providing a method for confirming the sialic acid linkage."	2000	Oct-15	72	20	5027-39	11055725	0
851	"Wheeler, SF and Harvey, DJ"	Extension of the in-gel release method for structural analysis of neutral and sialylated N-linked glycans to the analysis of sulfated glycans: application to the glycans from bovine thyroid-stimulating hormone	Anal Biochem	"This paper reports an extension of the in-gel technique for releasing N-linked glycans from glycoproteins for analysis by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry reported by B. Kuster, S. F. Wheeler, A. P. Hunter, R. A. Dwek, and D. J. Harvey (1997, Anal. Biochem. 250, 82-101) to allow it to be used for sulfated glycans. The method was used to identify N-linked glycans from bovine thyroid-stimulating hormone. Following glycan release, either in gel or in solution, the glycans were fractionated directly with a porous graphatized carbon column. The sulfated glycans were examined by MALDI mass spectrometry in negative ion mode with d-arabinosazone as the matrix and both neutral and acidic glycans were examined in positive ion mode from 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Negative ion post-source decay spectra were also obtained. Twenty-two neutral and fifteen sulfated N-linked glycans were identified and it was shown that negligible loss of sulfate groups occurred even though these groups are often readily lost during MALDI analysis. The glycans were mainly sulfated hybrid and biantennary complex structures. Negative ion post-source decay and positive ion collision-induced fragmentation spectra were obtained."	2001	Sep-01	296	1	92-100	11520036	0
852	"Wheeler, SF"	Comparison of the N-linked glycans from soluble and GPI-anchored CD59 expressed in CHO cells	Glycobiology	"The N-linked glycosylation of recombinant human CD59, expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells with and without a membrane anchor, was compared to examine the effect of the anchor on glycan processing. N-Linked glycans were released with peptide-N-glycosidase F (PNGase F) within gel from SDS-PAGE-isolated soluble and glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored human CD59 expressed in CHO cells. The anchored form contained core-fucosylated neutral and sialylated bi-, tri-, and tetraantennary glycans with up to four N-acetyllactosamine extensions. Exoglycosidase digestions and analysis by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry were used to define the relative amounts of the bi-, tri-, and tetraantennary glycans and to investigate the distribution of N-acetyllactosamine extensions between their antennae. Biantennary structures accounted for about 60% of the glycans, 30% of the triantennary structures, and about 10% of the tetraantennary structures. For tri- and tetraantennary glycans, those with extended antennae were found to be more abundant than those without extensions. The soluble form of CD59, expressed in CHO cells without the GPI anchor signal sequence, consisted almost entirely (97%) of biantennary glycans, of which 81% were unmodified, 17% contained one N-acetyllactosamine extension, and 2% contained two extensions. No compounds with longer extensions were found. A MALDI spectrum of the intact glycoprotein showed a distribution of glycans that matched those released with PNGase F. In addition, the protein was substituted with several small glycans, such as HexNAc, HexNAc-->Fuc, and HexNAc-->HexNAc, probably as the result of degradation of the mature N-linked glycans. The results show that the presence of the anchor increases the extent of glycan processing, possibly as the result of longer exposure to the glycosyltransferases or to a closer proximity of the protein to these enzymes."	2002	Apr	12	4	261-71	12042249	0
853	"Willan, KJ"	"Comparison of the dimensions of the combining sites of the dinitrophenyl-binding immunoglobulin A myeloma proteins MOPC 315, MOPC 460 and XRPC 25 by spin-label mapping"	Biochem J		1977	Aug-01	165	2	199-206	200220	0
854	"Willan, KJ"	Specific spin labelling of the Fc region of immunoglobulins	FEBS Lett		1977	Aug-01	80	1	133-6	196922	0
855	"Willan, KJ"	The use of gadolinium as a probe in the Fc region of a homogeneous anti-(type-III pneumococcal polysaccharide) antibody	Biochem J	"The binding of gadolinium [Gd(III)] to a homogeneous rabbit anti-(type-III pneumococcal polysaccharide) IgG (immunoglobulin G) and its Fab (N-terminal half of heavy and light chain) and Fc (C-terminal half of heavy-chain dimer) fragments was demonstrated by measurements of solvent-water proton relaxation rates in the appropriate Gd(III) solutions. At pH 5.5 the binding of Gd(III) to the Fc fragment is much tighter (KD approx. 5 micronM) than binding to the Fab fragment (KD approx. 250 micronM). The binding of Gd(III) to the whole IgG molecule (KD approx. 4 micronM) is very similar to that for the Fc fragment alone. This specificity of binding to the Fc region allows the use of Gd(III) as a probe of the Fc conformation. The environment of the Gd(III) in the Fc region of whole IgG is not affected by the presence of octasaccharide derived by hydrolysis of type-III pneumococcal polysaccharide, but the corresponding 28-unit saccharide does cause detectable changes. The addition of 16-unit saccharide to anti-(SIII polysaccharide) IgG in the presence of Gd(III) does not change the solvent water proton relaxation rate, although aggregation does occur. The effects of the 28-unit saccharide may be explained therefore by a change in the tumbling time of the IgG. From a study of the effect of various antigen/antibody ratios, it is concluded that the 28-unit-saccharide-induced changes in the Gd(III) environment in the Fc region are caused by the specific geometrical structure of the antigen-antibody complexes formed, and not simply by occupancy of the combining sites on the antibody."	1977	Feb-01	161	2	205-11	15542	0
856	"Williams, PJ"	Characterisation of oligosaccharides from Drosophila melanogaster glycoproteins	Biochim Biophys Acta	"An analysis of the released oligosaccharides from a membrane glycoprotein preparation of third instar larvae (3rdIL), and purified larval serum protein 2 (LSP2) from Drosophila melanogaster was performed. Sequential exoglycosidase digestion in combination with high-resolution gel permeation chromatography and partial acetolysis indicated the presence of two series of oligomannosides; one of these series was unusual and characterized by the presence of a core alpha 1-6 linked fucose, the other was a typical mammalian oligomannose series containing the following isomers -D1, -D2, -D12, -D123 and -CD123 as well as the unprocessed Man9GlcNAc2 structure. Conventional oligomannose could only be detected in the LSP2 sample. This study opens the way to use powerful molecular and classical genetic techniques to analyse the control and functional significance of glycosylation in higher organisms."	1991	Oct-10	1075	2	146-53	1932070	0
857	"Williams, AF"	"Comparative analysis of the N-glycans of rat, mouse and human Thy-1. Site-specific oligosaccharide patterns of neural Thy-1, a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily"	Glycobiology	"Protein structure and tissue type are known to influence glycosylation of proteins. We have previously investigated the N-glycans at each of the three glycosylation sites of the cell surface glycoprotein Thy-1 when isolated from rat brain and thymocytes. Here we report a comparative analysis of the site-specific N-glycosylation patterns from rat (Asn 23, 74, 98), mouse (Asn 23, 75, 99) and human (Asn 23, 60, 100) neural Thy-1. Despite considerable differences in amino acid sequence, the results show a remarkable conservation of the pattern of N-glycans at corresponding sites between the three species, as judged by chromatographic comparisons and glycosidase susceptibility. This is particularly marked for sites at Asn 74/75 in rat/mouse and the equivalent site at 60 in human Thy-1, as well as for sites at Asn 98/99 and 100, respectively. The sites at Asn 23 in rat/mouse also contained almost identical glycosylation patterns, but at this site human Thy-1 showed significantly different glycosylation patterns. These site glycosylation patterns are discussed in relation to the likely accessibility of the oligosaccharides for processing. It is known that within a species, the glycosylation of Thy-1 is tissue specific; therefore, this degree of conservation of glycosylation of Thy-1 expressed in the same tissue in different species is all the more striking, given the known variation between species in the amino acid sequence of Thy-1. It is therefore proposed that neural cells have a particular requirement for specific surface carbohydrates and that the Thy-1 polypeptide serves as an appropriate carrier for these structures."	1993	Aug	3	4	339-48	8104555	0
858	"Williams, PJ"	Short communication: selective placental transport of maternal IgG to the fetus	Placenta	"During pregnancy there is a dramatic reduction in the serum levels of agalactosyl IgG (G0IgG) in both normal women and those with rheumatoid arthritis. In order to determine if a similar reduction in G0IgG were apparent in fetal serum, a comparison of the galactose content of IgG from nine paired samples of umbilical vein or fetal blood and peripheral maternal serum, at gestational ages ranging from 16-41 weeks was performed. The full-term maternal IgG samples were highly galactosylated, so confirming previous observations of reduced G0IgG levels during pregnancy. In addition every paired sample of fetal IgG had a higher level of galactosylation than the corresponding maternal IgG. Therefore, during pregnancy there is both a reduced biosynthesis of the G0IgG glycoform by the mother, and a restriction of its transport across the placenta. The ratio of estimated G0IgG in fetal and maternal serum was found to be related to changes in IgG transport, and in particular the active transport of IgG1 across the placenta during gestation. Our data suggest that the placental IgG transport mechanism is either carbohydrate independent by discriminating for IgG1, or is carbohydrate dependent selecting for highly galactosylated IgG glycoforms. This study emphasizes the need for further investigations on the biological function of G0IgG in normal physiological states, in addition to disease states, such as juvenile and adult rheumatoid arthritis, where elevated G0IgG levels correlate with disease activity."	1995	Dec	16	8	749-56	8710805	0
859	"Wilson, IB"	Aberrant control of galactosyltransferase in peripheral B lymphocytes and Epstein-Barr virus transformed B lymphoblasts from patients with rheumatoid arthritis	J Rheumatol	"It is now well established that hypogalactosylation of IgG is a molecular marker for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the mechanism for the alteration of the galactosylation status has not been resolved. We compared the galactosyltransferase activities of anti-CD19 selected peripheral B lymphocytes of healthy subjects and patients with RA using ovalbumin as the acceptor substrate. In addition, certain samples of lymphocytes were assayed after Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transformation and, also, the ability of bovine milk galactosyltransferase to galactosylate IgG in vitro was examined. Our results indicate that there is a significant difference between the galactosyltransferase activities of rheumatoid and control peripheral B lymphocytes and that EBV transformation causes a variable increase (15-1225%) in galactosyltransferase activity, over that present in the peripheral B lymphocytes from which the transformed cells were derived. Also the ubiquitous ""lactose synthetase"" type galactosyltransferase (EC 2.4.1.38) will galactosylate normal native IgG at concentrations of 500 mU/ml in vitro. We conclude that there is no evidence from our study for an IgG specific galactosyltransferase and that galactosyltransferase is an enzyme that is aberrantly modulated in peripheral B lymphocytes and EBV transformed B lymphoblasts derived from patients with RA."	1993	Aug	20	8	1282-7	8230006	0
860	"Wing, DR"	Clearing-factor lipase in adipose tissue. Factors influencing the increase in enzyme activity produced on incubation of tissue from starved rats in vitro	Biochem J		1966	Jun	99	3	648-56	4290407	0
861	"Wing, DR"	The effect of cycloheximide on tissue clearing-factor lipase activity	Biochem J		1967	Sep	104	3	45C-46C	6049875	0
862	"Wing, DR and Robinson, DS"	"Clearing-factor lipase in adipose tissue. A possible role of adenosine 3',5'-(cyclic)-monophosphate in the regulation of its activity"	Biochem J		1968	Oct	109	5	841-9	4301448	0
863	"Wing, DR and Robinson, DS"	Clearing-factor lipase in adipose tissue. Studies with puromycin and actinomycin	Biochem J		1968	Feb	106	3	667-76	4295776	0
864	"Wing, DR and Paton, WD"	An effect of cannabis treatment in vivo on noradrenaline-stimulated lipolysis in rat adipocytes	J Pharm Pharmacol		1978	Dec	30	12	802-3	32252	0
865	"Wing, DR and Paton, WD"	"Effects of acute delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol treatment, of hypothermia and of ambient temperature on choline incorporation into mouse brain"	Biochem Pharmacol		1979		28	2	253-60	426841	0
866	"Wing, DR and Paton, WD"	[14C]Serine incorporation into phospholipid in the guinea-pig ileum: effects of halothane [proceedings]	Biochem Soc Trans		1980	Feb	8	1	124-5	6768611	0
867	"Wing, DR"	Effects of chronic ethanol administration on the composition of membrane lipids in the mouse	Biochem Pharmacol	"The relative proportions of the phospholipid fatty acids of erythrocyte membranes in mice were changed by chronic ethanol treatment and were not related to effects of the drug on nutrition, body temperature or experimental stress. Similar changes were observed using two different routes of ethanol administration and they did not reflect the metabolic effects of ethanol seen in the phospholipid fatty acids of whole liver. The observed increased content of saturated fatty acids and decreased content of polyunsaturated acids support the concept of adaptive changes taking place in the membrane during tolerance development to compensate for an increased membrane fluidity caused by ethanol. However, an increased content of the mono-unsaturated acid, octadecenoic (oleic), was found and there was no change in the cholesterol/phospholipid ratio. Other contrasting types of plasma membrane in mice showed different patterns of change in their phospholipid fatty acids during chronic ethanol administration. It is suggested that changes in membrane lipid composition could only partly account for an adaptation to ethanol-induced membrane disordering."	1982	Nov-01	31	21	3431-9	6890815	0
868	"Wing, DR"	Changes in membrane lipid content after chronic ethanol administration with respect to fatty acyl compositions and phospholipid type	Biochem Pharmacol	"Changes in the relative proportions of the phospholipid fatty acids of erythrocyte membranes in mice after chronic ethanol treatment (4.5 g/kg, i.p. twice daily for one week) were shown to vary with the differing control profiles observed. It is suggested that certain changes in membrane lipid composition after ethanol administration may not be interpreted simply in terms of an adaptation to a disordering effect of the drug. The fatty acid changes were, in addition, distributed asymmetrically within the individual phospholipid classes. Depending on the control profile, the effects varied from being mainly in phosphatidylethanolamine (PE; 80%) and phosphatidylserine-inositol (PS + PI; 10%), phospholipids primarily located on the inner half of the membrane bilayer, to being more evenly distributed between PE and phosphatidylcholine (PC) and probably, therefore, between the two halves of the bilayer. Changes in the monounsaturated acid remained primarily with PE, suggesting a specific functional role for this species. The remaining results are discussed in the light of possible effects on cell morphology and their potentially similar consequences of increasing cell volume."	1984	May-15	33	10	1625-32	6732836	0
869	"Wing, DR"	Examination of the esterified fatty acids from mouse erythrocyte and synaptosomal membrane phospholipids and their distribution between the various phospholipid types	J Chromatogr	"Esterified fatty acids from mouse erythrocyte and synaptosomal membranes were characterised by fused-silica capillary gas-liquid chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Structural information was obtained from the mass spectra of a number of derivatives including trimethylsilyl (TMS), methyl and picolinyl esters together with the TMS ethers of glycols derived from the unsaturated acids. In addition to previously characterised acids, small concentrations of several acids previously unreported from these membranes were identified. These included branched chain acids and several unsaturated acids."	1986	Oct-10	368	1	103-11	3782360	0
870	"Wing, DR"	Use of large-scale hydrazinolysis in the preparation of N-linked oligosaccharide libraries: application to brain tissue	Glycoconj J	"In this report, we describe the preparation of a library of N-linked glycans from whole murine brain obtained by the large-scale hydrazinolysis of an acetone powder of the tissue followed by chromatographic procedures. 84% of the characterized oligosaccharides were found to be anionic, the remainder neutral. The anionic species were successively neutralized by neuraminidase (29%), aq. hydrofluoric acid (30%), and methanolysis (26%), indicating that approximately equal portions were sensitive to desialylation, dephosphorylation and desulfation, respectively. The presence of the sulfated fraction was confirmed by direct 35SO4 metabolic labelling. A residual partially characterized fraction was found to be anionic through possession of carboxylic acid groups, unrelated to sialic acid. The purified oligosaccharides, in the absence of their original protein conjugates, were shown to retain those immunological characteristics essential for recognition by a specific monoclonal antibody, LS (412), that is known to recognize a carbohydrate epitope present on a number of neural adhesion molecules and functional in neural cell adhesion. These properties confirm the viability of scaling up the size of the hydrazinolysis procedure and adapting it to whole tissue for the production of glycan libraries and for the probing of structures of interest."	1992	Dec	9	6	293-301	1305421	0
871	"Wing, DR"	Comparative glycosylation in neural adhesion molecules	Biochem Soc Trans		1992	May	20	2	386-90	1397635	0
872	"Wing, DR"	Neural glycoproteins: do they provide specific clues for our understanding of glycan functions?	Glycoconj J		1993	Jun	10	3	190-4; discussion 18	8257846	0
873	"Wing, DR"	Core fucosylation in honeybee venom	Glycobiology		1994	Oct	4	5	548-9	7881168	0
874	"Wing, DR"	High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of ganglioside carbohydrates at the picomole level after ceramide glycanase digestion and fluorescent labeling with 2-aminobenzamide	Anal Biochem	"The functional importance of glycolipids has emphasized the need for more sensitive methods of detection, characterization, and quantification than has often been possible using traditional thin-layer chromatographic techniques. We describe the use of ceramide glycanase and HPLC to identify and quantify gangliosides in which the carbohydrate is in Glcbeta1--> linkage with ceramide. Detection of released carbohydrate was by fluorescent labeling with 2-aminobenzamide at the reducing terminal prior to HPLC analysis. Under the conditions described, ceramide glycanase hydrolyzed all of the common gangliosides studied, offering a broad spectrum of specificity. Release and detection of carbohydrate were linear over a wide range (over two orders of magnitude) of micromolar glycolipid substrate concentrations. Use of an N-linked glycan as an internal standard allowed accurate quantification and a recovery of 93% was achieved. The method additionally maintained the sensitivity (chromatographic peaks containing 1 pmol were readily detected from tissue samples) and comparable resolution to related assays. This was shown by the separation, not only of isomeric carbohydrates from the ""a"" and ""b"" series, but also of ganglioside carbohydrate differing only by the presence of either N-acetyl- or N-glycolylneuraminic acid. Application of the method to neutral glycosphingolipids and to tissue samples, including 10-microl quantities of plasma, is illustrated. Glycan structures were confirmed by exoglycosidase digestion and/or matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry."	2001	Nov-15	298	2	207-17	11700975	0
875	"Wittwer, AJ"	Effects of N-glycosylation on in vitro activity of Bowes melanoma and human colon fibroblast derived tissue plasminogen activator	Biochemistry	"Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), when isolated from human colon fibroblast (hcf) cells, is N-glycosylated differently than when isolated from the Bowes melanoma (m) cell line (Parekh et al., 1988). Both hcf- and m-t-PA can be separated into type I t-PA (with three occupied N-glycosylation sequons, at Asn-117, -184, and -448) and type II t-PA (with two occupied sequons, at Asn-117 and -448). Oligosaccharide analysis of each of these types of t-PA indicates that hcf-t-PA and m-t-PA have no glycoforms in common, despite having the same primary amino acid sequence. We have therefore compared in vitro the enzymatic activities and fibrin binding of type I and type II hcf- and m-t-PA with those of aglycosyl t-PA isolated from tunicamycin-treated cells. Plasminogen activation kinetics were determined by using an indirect amidolytic assay with Glu-plasminogen and a chromogenic plasmin substrate. In the absence of stimulator, there was little difference in activity between type I and type II t-PA, but the activity of aglycosyl t-PA was 2-4-fold higher than that of the corresponding glycosylated t-PA. In the presence of a fibrinogen fragment stimulator, the Kcat value of type II t-PA was approximately 5-fold that of type I t-PA from the same cell line, while the Km values for activation of Glu-plasminogen were similar (0.13-0.18 microM). The stimulated activity of glycosyl t-PA was similar to that of type II t-PA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"	1989	Sep-19	28	19	7662-9	2514792	0
876	"Wong, SY"	Analysis of carbohydrate-protein interactions with synthetic N-linked neoglycoconjugate probes	Biochem J	"Recently we have describe a simple efficient chemical method of generating an asparagine side-chain linker with beta-stereochemistry at the anomeric position of neutral oligosaccharides. We now report the 1-N-glycyl beta-derivatization of sialylated saccharides. Several neoglycoconjugates formed using these N-linked inter-mediates were investigated for their usefulness in probing carbohydrate-protein interactions. First, biotinyl derivatives of two xylose/fucose class plant-type oligosaccharides purified from horseradish peroxidase were effective in demonstrating the carbohydrate specificity of polyclonal anti-(horseradish peroxidase) antibodies. Secondly, a fluorescein-labelled asialo- and digalactosylated biantennary complex sugar was synthesized and shown to bind to a Ricinus communis agglutinin column. This galactose-specific recognition was abolished by treating this fluorescein-labelled oligosaccharide with jack bean beta-galactosidase. Finally, two 1-N-glycyl beta-saccharide derivatives were modified with thiophosgene to form their corresponding isothiocyanate derivatives. Coupling of these isothiocyanate derivatives of sugars to BSA, amino-derivatized polystyrene plates and glass-fibre discs resulted in multiple sugar presentation. The binding of an anti-N-acetylglucosamine monoclonal antibody to N,N'-diacetylchitobiose residues presented on BSA and solid supports was shown by e.l.i.s.a. Similarly the binding of concanavalin A to asialo-, agalactosylated biantennary complex oligosaccharide residues attached to BSA was demonstrated by a competitive e.l.i.s.a. Our results demonstrate that N-linked neoglycoconjugates could be made readily available and they are valuable tools for the detailed analyses of carbohydrates and carbohydrate-binding proteins."	1993	Dec-15	296 ( Pt 3)		817-25	7506528	0
877	"Wong, SY"	Synthetic glycosylation of peptides using unprotected saccharide beta-glycosylamines	Glycoconj J	"Glycopeptides can be valuable tools in determining the influence of carbohydrate moieties on the intrinsic properties of glycoproteins. However, glycopeptides of sufficient quantity and purity are as yet not readily available from biological sources. The chemical coupling of a beta-glycosylamino group of an unprotected carbohydrate with an activated aspartic acid residue of an unprotected peptide is a simple method for synthesizing asparagine-linked glycopeptides. In this report we demonstrate that the use of this method is not restricted to beta-glycosylamines of simple monosaccharides or short aspartic acid-containing pentapeptides. This is illustrated by the syntheses of several glycopentapeptides containing N,N'-diacetylchitobiose, a glutamine-linked glycopentapeptide containing a biantennary complex oligosaccharide, and glycosylated variants of two analogs of a polypeptide hormone, atriopeptin, containing N,N'-diacetylchitobiose."	1993	Jun	10	3	227-34	8257851	0
878	"Wong, SY"	Synthetic glycosylation of proteins using N-(beta-saccharide) iodoacetamides: applications in site-specific glycosylation and solid-phase enzymic oligosaccharide synthesis	Biochem J	"A simple and efficient synthetic glycosylation method suitable for use in solid-phase enzymic oligosaccharide synthesis and site-specific glycosylation of recombinant proteins to produce defined glycoforms is described. This strategy utilizes N-(beta-saccharide) haloacetamides for attaching oligosaccharides specifically to cysteine residues of proteins in solution to form neoglycoproteins. The alkylation reaction was tested using N-(beta-chitotriose) bromoacetamide and an unprotected synthetic hexapeptide containing a single cysteine residue. The glycosylated product was confirmed by amino acid and hexosamine analyses as well as laser desorption mass spectrometry. Similarly N-(beta-chitotriose) iodoacetamide was covalently linked to non-reduced BSA to produce a defined glycoform of this protein. The specific attachment of chitotriose at the single cysteine residue in non-reduced serum albumin was suggested by Ellman's assay for free thiols. This was verified by amino acid sequencing of tryptic glycopeptide derived from this neoglycoprotein. Multiple sugar attachment was accomplished using fully reduced serum albumin as demonstrated by the formation of two neoglycoproteins using iodoacetamide derivatives of galactose beta 1-3-N-acetylgalactosamine (Gal beta 1-3GalNAc) and the major xylose/fucose-class plant-type oligosaccharide of horseradish peroxidase. These two neoglycoproteins with an average of 18-21 sugar residues attached were assayed positively for binding to peanut agglutinin and a sugar-specific anti-(horseradish peroxidase) monoclonal antibody YZ1/2.23 respectively. Sialylation of the neoglycoprotein containing Gal beta 1-3GalNAc was accomplished using alpha-2,3-sialyltransferase and radiolabelled CMP-N-acetylneuraminic acid. Significantly, glycan attachment using this conjugation method is reversible as demonstrated by the release of oligosaccharides from these two neoglycoproteins using hydrazinolysis. Therefore this method could provide invaluable reagents for many glycobiological studies."	1994	Jun-15	300 ( Pt 3)		843-50	8010968	0
879	"Woods, RJ"	Protein surface oligosaccharides and protein function	Nat Struct Biol		1994	Aug	1	8	499-501	7664073	0
880	"Woods, RJ"	The high degree of internal flexibility observed for an oligomannose oligosaccharide does not alter the overall topology of the molecule	Eur J Biochem	"The conformational properties of oligosaccharides are important in determining their biological properties, such as recognition by proteins. The structural and dynamic properties of many oligosaccharides are poorly understood both because of a lack of experimental data (usually obtained from solution NMR parameters) and because of gross approximations frequently invoked in theoretical models. To characterise the oligomannose oligosaccharide Man,GlcNAc2 we have acquired a more extensive NMR data set and performed the first unrestrained molecular dynamics (MD) simulation in water of this large oligosaccharide (employing the GLYCAM_93 parameter set with the AMBER force field). Good agreement is seen between the computed dynamics data and the results of both an isolated spin pair (ISPA) analysis of short mixing time NOE data and NOE build-up curves for mixing times from 100 to 2000 ms. The number of experimental conformational constraints obtained in this study are in principle sufficient to fully define a rigid structure. The fact that this could not be done indicates a high degree of internal flexibility and/or the presence of multiple conformations about the glycosidic linkages. Independently, the same conclusions are reached from an analysis of the MD results. In addition, the theoretical results allow the overall topology of the molecule and its intra-molecular and solvent-mediated hydrogen bonding pattern to be defined. Extensive re-organisation of solvent and inter-residue hydrogen bonds is shown to be required for significant conformational changes to occur, resulting in relatively long life-times for distinct glycosidic linkage conformations, despite the high local flexibility of the glycosidic linkages. This factor is also seen in the overall topology of the molecule, where the considerable internal flexibility is not translated into gross changes in structure. The control exerted by the solvent over both the flexibility and overall topology of an oligosaccharide has important implications for recognition processes and for the conformational properties of glycans attached to glycoproteins."	1998	Dec-01	258	2	372-86	9874202	0
881	"Wooten, EW"	"Uncertainties in structural determinations of oligosaccharide conformation, using measurements of nuclear Overhauser effects"	Carbohydr Res	"A fundamental problem in the determination of molecular structure by n.m.r. spectroscopy is insufficient experimental constraints. This problem is particularly marked for oligosaccharides, where few constraints are available across glycosidic linkages. By calculating distances as a function of dihedral angle, it is shown that, in general, two n.O.e. constraints result in two possible conformations for each glycosidic linkage, one of which can usually be discarded on the basis of model building or energy calculations. Using these calculations, an estimate of the uncertainty in the structure can be obtained."	1990	Aug-01	203	1	13-Jul	2224900	0
882	"Wooten, EW"	Primary sequence dependence of conformation in oligomannose oligosaccharides	Eur Biophys J	"The oligomannose series of oligosaccharides from bovine thyroglobulin (BTG) and the variant surface glycoprotein (VSG) of Trypanosoma brucei have been isolated and sequenced by 1H NMR. The structure of Man9GlcNAc2, the parent molecule of the series, is shown below. Structural isomerism occurs within this series through the removal of residues D1, D2, D3, and C. Using spin-spin coupling and chemical shift data the rotamer distributions about the dihedral angle omega for the Man alpha 1-6Man beta and Man alpha 1-6Man alpha linkages were determined for each member of the series. It is shown that the dihedral angle omega of the Man alpha 1-6Man beta linkage exhibits low flexibility with a preference for the omega = 180 degrees conformation when residue D2 is present and high flexibility when this residue is absent. Flexibility of omega for the Man alpha 1-6Man alpha is largely independent of primary sequence and is intermediate between the two Man alpha 1-6Man beta extremes, again with a preference for the omega = 180 degrees conformation. [see text] There are, however, data which indicate that removal of residue D3 may confer additional flexibility upon the dihedral angle omega of the Man alpha 1-6Man alpha linkage. Molecular graphics modelling, together with chemical and enzymatic modification studies, suggest that the origin of the observed primary sequence dependence of the Man alpha 1-6Man beta linkage arises from steric factors. On the basis of these observations taken together with previous work, it is postulated that recognition of individual oligomannose conformations may play a role in the control of N-linked oligosaccharide biosynthesis."	1990		18	3	139-48	2357942	0
883	"Wormald, MR"	Solution NMR studies of colicin E1 C-terminal thermolytic peptide. Structural comparison with colicin A and the effects of pH changes	Eur J Biochem	"The aqueous solution structure of the C-terminal thermolytic peptide of colicin E1 has been investigated using both one- and two-dimensional NMR techniques. The NMR data are consistent with a fold for the peptide very similar to that reported for the colicin A C-terminal peptide in the crystalline state, although some differences have been noted. The one-dimensional NMR spectrum of the peptide has been used to follow changes in both the structure and dynamics of the peptide on changing pH. The in vitro functionally competent form of the peptide (present in solution only below pH 6) does not differ in structure significantly from the higher pH form. However, small local conformational changes are observed together with an increase in mobility in some of the more hydrophilic regions. This suggests that the effect of lower pH is to change the ease with which the major conformational changes during insertion into a membrane can occur."	1990	Jul-20	191	1	155-61	2199197	0
884	"Wormald, MR"	The solution conformation of the Le chi group	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	The solution conformation of the non-reducing terminal Gal beta 1----4 (Fuc alpha 1----3)GlcNAc (Lewis X or Le chi) group in the oligosaccharide Lacto-N-fucopentaose (LNFP) III has been determined by high resolution 1H NMR spectroscopy and semi-empirical quantum mechanical calculations. The two methods give the same single conformer for the Le chi group showing close packing of the Gal and Fuc rings. The metal binding properties and homotypic oligomer formation of LNFP III have also been investigated by NMR spectroscopy. No evidence for metal binding or high-affinity homotypic oligomer formation has been found.	1991	Nov-14	180	3	1214-21	1953773	0
885	"Wormald, MR"	The conformational effects of N-glycosylation on the tailpiece from serum IgM	Eur J Biochem	"1H-NMR spectroscopy has been used to study the conformation and dynamics of the isolated tailpiece from human serum immunoglobulin M, a 22-residue peptide containing a single asparagine glycosylation site. The peptide is isolated as a set of glycoforms, varying only in the sequence of the oligosaccharide attached at the glycosylation site. The oligosaccharides present have the general formula (Man)n(GlcNAc)2, with 45% having n = 6, 45% having n = 8 and 10% having n = 7 and/or 9. They have been identified and their NMR parameters compared to those found for the isolated oligosaccharides in free solution. The conformation and dynamics of the peptide component have also been studied, using NOE data and hydrogen-exchange experiments, and the results compared to those obtained from the aglycosyl peptide of the same sequence. The presence of the peptide is found to have no measurable effect on the conformation of the oligosaccharides. However, the presence of oligosaccharide causes a decrease in the conformational mobility of the backbone and sidechains of the peptide in the region of the glycosylation site. This is proposed to result from interactions between the oligosaccharide core and the amino acid side chains. Further, the conformation of the N-glycosidic linkage has been shown to be both rigid and planar. Thus, the conformational space available to an N-linked oligosaccharide in a glycoprotein relative to the protein may depend to a large extent upon the flexibility of the asparagine side chain. Various roles for the different glycoforms of the tail peptide are discussed."	1991	May-23	198	1	131-9	2040275	0
886	"Wormald, MR and Edge, CJ"	The systematic use of negative nuclear Overhauser constraints in the determination of oligosaccharide conformations: application to sialyl-Lewis X	Carbohydr Res		1993	Aug-17	246		337-44	8103705	0
887	"Wormald, MR"	Variations in oligosaccharide-protein interactions in immunoglobulin G determine the site-specific glycosylation profiles and modulate the dynamic motion of the Fc oligosaccharides	Biochemistry	"Glycoproteins, such as immunoglobulin G (IgG), consist of an ensemble of glycosylated variants, or glycoforms, which have different oligosaccharides attached to a common peptide. Alterations in the normal glycoform populations of IgG are associated with certain disease states, notably rheumatoid arthritis and its remission during pregnancy. In this paper, we show that two sets of IgG Fc glycoforms have quite different physical properties. The first set has 1,6 arm terminal galactose residues which interact with the protein, resulting in glycan binding to the protein surface, in agreement with the crystal structure. In contrast, the second set of glycoforms which lack galactose does not bind to the protein surface. Recently developed HPLC techniques combined with enzymatic digestion and mass spectrometry have been used to assign the glycan structures on IgG, Fab, and Fc. Comparison of Fab with Fc shows that glycosylation is site-specific. Two major glycan structures are present on Fab (fucosylated digalacto-bianntenary with and without bisect) and three on Fc (fucosylated agalacto-, 1,6 arm monogalacto-, and digalacto-bianntenary). In comparison to Fab, Fc glycans contain (i) lower levels of bisecting GlcNAc, (ii) lower levels of galactose, (iii) higher than expected levels of 1,6 arm galactose relative to 1,3 arm, and (iv) no 1,6 arm sialylation. We interpret these differences to indicate a role for both the protein quaternary structure and specific protein-glycan interactions in determining the glycoform populations. NMR relaxation measurements have been used to probe the mobility of the glycans in the Fc. By comparing two samples with different glycoform populations, we conclude that this mobility is dependent on the primary sequence of the glycan. Glycans carrying a galactose residue on the 1,6 arm have relaxation properties very similar to those of the peptide backbone and thus do not have independent motion. Glycans lacking galactose have relaxation rates 30 times slower than that of the peptide and thus a higher degree of mobility. These agalactosyl glycans do not interact with the protein, resulting in exposure of previously covered regions of the peptide surface and making the glycan more accessible. This implies that at the early stages of glycan processing the Fc glycans are mobile and only partially protected by the protein quaternary structure. Immobilization of the glycans occurs as a consequence of addition of galactose to the 1,6 arm and results in increased protection."	1997	Feb-11	36	6	1370-80	9063885	0
888	"Wormald, MR and Dwek, RA"	Glycoproteins: glycan presentation and protein-fold stability	Structure	"Glycosylation of proteins has been shown to play a role in a variety of cellular events. Thanks to recent advances in obtaining conformational constraints across glycosidic linkages, structural characterisation of glycoproteins has improved considerably. It is now becoming apparent that N-glycosylation of a folded protein can have a significant stabilising effect on large regions of the backbone structure."	1999	Jul-15	7	7	R155-60	10425673	0
889	"Wormald, MR"	"Conformational studies of oligosaccharides and glycopeptides: complementarity of NMR, X-ray crystallography, and molecular modelling"	Chem Rev		2002	Feb	102	2	371-86	11841247	0
890	"Wormald, MR and Sharon, N"	"Carbohydrates and glycoconjugates: progress in non-mammalian glycosylation, glycosyltransferases, invertebrate lectins and carbohydrate-carbohydrate interactions"	Curr Opin Struct Biol		2004	Oct	14	5	591-2	15465320	0
891	"Wragg, S and Drickamer, K"	Identification of amino acid residues that determine pH dependence of ligand binding to the asialoglycoprotein receptor during endocytosis	J Biol Chem	"The rat hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor mediates clearance of galactose- and N-acetylgalactosamine-terminated glycoproteins by endocytosis, binding ligands through a C-type, Ca(2+)-dependent carbohydrate-recognition domain (CRD) at extracellular pH and releasing them at lower pH in endosomes. At physiological Ca(2+) concentrations, the midpoint for ligand release from the CRD of the major subunit of the receptor is pH 7.1. In contrast, the midpoint is pH 5.0 for a galactose-binding derivative of the homologous C-type CRD of serum mannose-binding protein, which would thus not efficiently release ligand at an endosomal pH of 5.4. Site-directed mutagenesis of the CRD from the major subunit of the asialoglycoprotein receptor has been used to identify residues that are essential for efficient release of ligand at endosomal pH. The effects of changes to residues His(256), Asp(266), and Arg(270) singly and in combination indicate that these residues reduce the affinity of the CRD for Ca(2+), so that ligands are released at physiological Ca(2+) concentrations. The proximity of these three residues to the ligand-binding site at Ca(2+) site 2 of the domain suggests that they form a pH-sensitive switch for Ca(2+) and ligand binding. Introduction of histidine and aspartic acid residues into the mannose-binding protein CRD at positions equivalent to His(256) and Asp(266) raises the pH for half-maximal binding of ligand to 6.1. The results, as well as sequence comparisons with other C-type CRDs, confirm the importance of these residues in conferring appropriate pH dependence in this family of domains."	1999	Dec-10	274	50	35400-6	10585409	0
892	"Wright, C"	The interaction of protein A and Fc fragment of rabbit immunoglobulin G as probed by complement-fixation and nuclear-magnetic-resonance studies	Biochem J	"Protein-A-Fc-fragment complexes were observed in sedimentation-velocity experiments by ultracentrifugation. The interaction was studied by protein-fluorescence-quenching titrations of the Fc fragment with protein A, allowing the dissociation constant to be determined under a variety of conditions. The first component of the complement pathway, C1, is activated by complexes of protein A with rabbit IgG (immunoglobulin G), and the structural basis for this interaction was studied by using n.m.r. (nuclear magnetic resonance). The four Fc-fragment binding sites on protein A were shown to contain aromatic amino acids, and to be connected by mobile hydrophilic regions. Neither n.m.r. nor proton-relaxation-enhancement studies show evidence of a large conformational change of the Fc fragment on binding protein A, and this suggests that the cross-linking of the Fc fragments may be primarily responsible for the activation of component C1. This is supported by the inability of a univalent tryptic fragment of protein A to activate complement fixation by rabbit IgG."	1977	Dec-01	167	3	661-8	603628	0
893	"Wu, TT"	Evidence that two latency-associated transcripts of herpes simplex virus type 1 are nonlinear	J Virol	"The latency-associated transcripts (LATs) of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) are the only viral gene products that accumulate to abundant levels in latently infected cells. Others have reported species of 2.0, 1.50, and 1.45 kb; only the 2.0-kb species is seen in productively infected cells, and there is evidence that it behaves as an intron. We examined the LATs both in trigeminal ganglia of latently infected mice and in productively infected cultures of monkey CV-1 cells. After glyoxalation, RNA was subjected to high-resolution agarose gel electrophoresis and Northern (RNA) analysis, a procedure capable of resolving linear and nonlinear RNA species. Under these conditions, we resolved the 2.0-kb LAT into two species; the slower species was much more abundant and had a mobility significantly slower than expected for a linear RNA. To test the hypothesis that this RNA was in fact nonlinear, we used partial hydrolysis by sodium carbonate and oligonucleotide-directed RNase H digestion. These procedures changed the mobility of the slower species into that of the faster species. Similarly, the mobility of the 1.50-kb LAT, which was much more abundant than the 1.45-kb LAT, was changed by these procedures to that of the 1.45-kb LAT. Our data show that the two major LAT species are nonlinear, and they support an interpretation of stable lariat structures."	1996	Sep	70	9	5962-7	8709218	0
894	"Wu, TT"	Atypical splicing of the latency-associated transcripts of herpes simplex type 1	Virology	"We previously have shown that two latency-associated transcripts (LATs) of herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1) are probably lariats, produced during splicing. By RNaseH digestion analysis, we now show that the major branchpoint of the 2.0-kb LAT was within 46 nt 5' of the splice acceptor site. A more detailed mapping by primer extension revealed the branchpoint as an adenosine 29 nt 5' of the splice acceptor site. Introduction of two branchpoint sequences with good matches to the consensus at position -25 had no effect on the splicing efficiency but reduced the accumulation of the 2.0-kb LATs at least 90-fold. The second focus of our studies was the 1.5-kb LAT. It was not detected by Northern analyses in either productively infected or transfected cultured cells or even in cells of neuronal origin. However, it was detected in the trigeminal ganglia of mice experimentally infected with HSV-1 after 10 days. Moreover, its abundance relative to that of the 2.0-kb species increased 4-fold from 10 to 30 days after infection, consistent with an interpretation that the 1.5-kb species, once formed, was more stable than the 2.0-kb species."	1998	Mar-30	243	1	140-9	9527923	0
895	"Wu, SF"	Antiviral effects of an iminosugar derivative on flavivirus infections	J Virol	"Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, which block the trimming step of N-linked glycosylation, have been shown to eliminate the production of several ER-budding viruses. Here we investigated the effects of one such inhibitor, N-nonyl-deoxynojirimycin (NN-DNJ), a 9-carbon alkyl iminosugar derivative, on infection by Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) and dengue virus serotype 2 (DEN-2). In the presence of NN-DNJ, JEV and DEN-2 infections were suppressed in a dose-dependent manner. This inhibitory effect appeared to influence DEN-2 infection more than JEV infection, since lower concentrations of NN-DNJ substantially blocked DEN-2 replication. Secretion of the flaviviral glycoproteins E and NS1 was greatly reduced, and levels of DEN-2 viral RNA replication measured by fluorogenic reverse transcription-PCR were also decreased, by NN-DNJ. Notably, the viral glycoproteins, prM, E, and NS1 were found to associate transiently with the ER chaperone calnexin, and this interaction was affected by NN-DNJ, suggesting a potential role of calnexin in the folding of flaviviral glycoproteins. Additionally, in a mouse model of lethal challenge by JEV infection, oral delivery of NN-DNJ reduced the mortality rate. These findings show that NN-DNJ has an antiviral effect on flavivirus infection, likely through interference with virus replication at the posttranslational modification level, occurring mainly in the ER."	2002	Apr	76	8	3596-604	11907199	0
896	"Wyner, LM"	Decreased HLA matching does not preclude successful renal transplantation in African Americans	Transplant Proc		1993	Aug	25	4	2452-3	8356629	0
897	"Yaqoob, P"	Comparison of the effects of a range of dietary lipids upon serum and tissue lipid composition in the rat	Int J Biochem Cell Biol	"Since the type of fat consumed in the diet may play a role in the development of several disorders, it is important to ascertain the effects of different dietary fats upon parameters such as serum lipid levels and adipose deposition. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of feeding rats a range of fats with differing fatty acid compositions. Weanling male rats were fed for 10 weeks on a low fat (LF) diet or on one of five high fat diets, which contained 20% by weight of either hydrogenated coconut oil (HCO), olive oil (OO), safflower oil (SO), evening primrose oil (EPO) or menhaden (fish) oil (MO). Food intake, animal growth, tissue weights at sacrifice, serum and liver lipid concentrations and serum, heart, brain and adipose tissue fatty acid compositions were studied. The food intake of the LF-fed animals was greater than that of animals fed on the high fat diets; there were no differences in food intake between animals fed the high fat diets. The total energy intake was lower for animals fed on the HCO diet than for those fed on the LF, OO, EPO or MO diets; there were no other differences in energy intake between the groups. Animals fed the different diets had almost identical rates of weight gain up to 5 weeks; after this period of rapid growth, the increase in weight was slower in all groups but especially in the LF-fed animals. The LF-fed rats had a lower total weight gain and smaller final weights than rats fed on the high fat diets. Animals fed on the MO diet had a greater weight gain than those fed on the OO or EPO diets and their final weights were greater. The MO diet resulted in greatly increased liver weight compared with each of the other diets. The HCO, OO and EPO diets also increased liver weight compared with the LF diet. The total lipid content of the livers from rats fed the high fat diets was greater than that of those from rats fed the LF diet; the livers from animals fed the MO diet contained more lipid than those from animals fed each of the other diets. MO feeding increased the free cholesterol, cholesterol ester and triacylglycerol contents of the liver.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"	1995	Mar	27	3	297-310	7780834	0
898	"Youings, A"	Site-specific glycosylation of human immunoglobulin G is altered in four rheumatoid arthritis patients	Biochem J	"Alterations in the glycosylation of human IgG have been shown to occur in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the precise nature and location of these changes have not been fully established. Therefore we carried out a detailed analysis of the oligosaccharides chemically released from intact human serum IgG and fragments of the molecule. Serum samples were from three healthy ('normal') individuals, and from four patients with RA. Site-specific glycolsylation of the glycoprotein was shown to occur, which extended to sites even within the Fab fragment. These were differences in galactosylation, sialylation and the presence of a bisecting N-acetylglucosomide. Disease related alterations were also shown to be site-specific. In particular, an increase in the proportion of agalactosylated oligosaccharides occurred on the Fc fragment in RA (P=0.057), but, in contrast to previous reports there was an increase on the light chain in the proportion of fully galactosylated, bisected and core fucosylated oligosaccharides (from 13% of total in normal to between 18 and 35% in RA, P=0.057)). There was also an Fab-specific increase in oligosaccharides bearing a bisecting N-acetylglucosamine and a core fucose (P=0.075) The site-specific glycosylation changes described in this paper reveal the complexity of the regulatory mechanism, perhaps reflecting the many levels at which regulation can occur."	1996	Mar-01	314 ( Pt 2)		621-30	8670078	0
899	"Yu, CY"	"Looking glass inhibitors: L-DMDP, a more potent and specific inhibitor of alpha-glucosidases than the enantiomeric natural product DMDP"	Chem Commun (Camb)	"L-DMDP, prepared from D-gulonolactone, is a highly specific inhibitor of a number of plant and mammalian alpha-glucosidases [between 2 and 4 orders of magnitude more potent than the enantiomeric natural product DMDP] but is not an inhibitor of bacterial and yeast alpha-glucosidases. Additionally N-butyl-DMDP is a potent inhibitor of ceramide-specific glucosyltransferase but N-butyl-L-DMDP shows no inhibition."	2004	Sep-07		17	1936-7	15340609	0
900	"Zajonc, DM"	Molecular mechanism of lipopeptide presentation by CD1a	Immunity	"CD1a is expressed on Langerhans cells (LCs) and dendritic cells (DCs), where it mediates T cell recognition of glycolipid and lipopeptide antigens that contain either one or two alkyl chains. We demonstrate here that CD1a-restricted T cells can discriminate the peptide component of didehydroxymycobactin lipopeptides. Structure analysis of CD1a cocrystallized with a synthetic mycobactin lipopeptide at 2.8 A resolution further reveals that the single alkyl chain is inserted deep within the A' pocket of the groove, whereas its two peptidic branches protrude along the F' pocket to the outer, alpha-helical surface of CD1a for recognition by the TCR. Remarkably, the cyclized lysine branch of the peptide moiety lies in the shallow F' pocket in a conformation that closely mimics that of the alkyl chain in the CD1a-sulfatide structure. Thus, this structural study illustrates how a single chain lipid can be presented by CD1 and that the peptide moiety of the lipopeptide is recognized by the TCR."	2005	Feb	22	2	209-19	15723809	0
901	"Zal, F"	Partially glucose-capped oligosaccharides are found on the hemoglobins of the deep-sea tube worm Riftia pachyptila	Glycobiology	"We report here the structural determination of N-linked oligosaccharides found on extracellular hemoglobins of the hydrothermal vent tube worm Riftia pachyptila. Structures were elucidated by a combination of electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry, normal-phase high performance liquid chromatography, and exoglycosidase digestion. The sugar chains were found to consist mainly of high-mannose-type glycans with some structures partially capped by one or two terminal glucose residues. The present study represents the first report of the occurrence of glucose capping of N-linked carbohydrates in a secreted glycoprotein of a metazoan. Previously, glucose capping has only been described for a membrane-bound surface glycoprotein from the unicellular parasite Leishmania mexicana amazonensis."	1998	Jul	8	7	663-73	9621107	0
902	"Zamze, SE"	Identification of phosphorylated 3-deoxy-manno-octulosonic acid as a component of Haemophilus influenzae lipopolysaccharide	Biochem J	"A phosphorylated 3-deoxy-manno-octulosonic acid (KDO) was released from the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of the deep rough mutant (Rb+169) of Haemophilus influenzae by acid hydrolysis. Both phosphorylated and dephosphorylated KDO, produced by treatment with alkaline phosphatase, were identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry after trimethylsilylation. This technique provides a rapid and reliable method for the identification of phosphorylated KDO in LPS."	1987	Jul-15	245	2	583-7	3499145	0
903	"Zamze, SE"	Characterization of the cross-reacting determinant (CRD) of the glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol membrane anchor of Trypanosoma brucei variant surface glycoprotein	Eur J Biochem	"The cross-reacting determinant (CRD epitope) of the glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI) membrane anchor of Trypanosoma brucei variant surface glycoprotein has been analysed by selective chemical and enzymic modification of the isolated GPI structure combined with the use of a competitive ELISA inhibition assay for the detection of CRD epitopes. The data show that the CRD consists of at least three overlapping epitopes involving different regions of the molecule including the inositol 1,2-cyclic phosphate, the non-N-acetylated-glucosamine residue and the galactose branch. Although the presence of all three of these structural features is required for quantitative binding of anti-CRD antibodies in ELISA and Western blotting, the Western blot reaction obtained in the presence of any one epitope is still significant. The use of anti-CRD antibodies for the detection of GPI anchors is discussed."	1988	Oct-01	176	3	527-34	2458923	0
904	"Zamze, SE"	Characterisation of the asparagine-linked oligosaccharides from Trypanosoma brucei type-I variant surface glycoproteins	Eur J Biochem	"The complete primary structures of the Asn-linked oligosaccharides from the conserved glycosylation site of the type-I variant surface glycoproteins of Trypanosoma brucei MITat 1.4 and MITat 1.6 were determined using a combination of exoglycosidase digestions, permethylation analysis, acetolysis and 1H NMR. Both variants contained almost exclusively oligomannose-type oligosaccharides, identical in structure to those of mammalian glycoproteins. The oligosaccharides ranged in size from (Man)9(GlcNAc)2 to (Man)5(GlcNAc)2. The relative abundance of each component was similar in both variants. The major components were (Man)8(GlcNAc)2 and (Man)7(GlcNAc)2 with slightly less (Man)9(GlcNAc)2 and (Man)6(GlcNAc)2 and much less (Man)5(GlcNAc)2. Both variants also contained the same structural isomers. The close similarity of the oligomannose series indicates identical processing at the conserved site in both variants."	1990	Feb-14	187	3	657-63	2303059	0
905	"Zamze, SE"	Structural characterization of the asparagine-linked oligosaccharides from Trypanosoma brucei type II and type III variant surface glycoproteins	J Biol Chem	"The complete primary structures of the major Asn-linked oligosaccharides from the type II variant surface glycoproteins (VSGs), MITat 1.2 and MITat 1.7, and the type III VSG, MITat 1.5, were determined using a combination of exo- and endoglycosidase digestions, methylation analysis, acetolysis, and 500 MHz 1H NMR spectroscopy. Each variant contained classical branched oligomannose-type and biantennary complex oligosaccharides, a proportion of the latter substituted with terminal alpha(1-3)-linked galactose residues, the first report of the presence of this epitope in Trypanosoma brucei. In addition both the type II variants contained relatively large amounts of the unusual small oligomannose-type oligosaccharides, Man4GlcNAc2 and Man3GlcNAc2, and a diverse array of novel branched poly-N-acetyllactosamine oligosaccharides, similar but not identical to those from mammalian glycoproteins. These latter structures were also partially substituted with terminal alpha(1-3)-linked galactose residues. Glycosylation in the type II variants showed site specificity in that the poly-N-acetyllactosamine and Man(9-5)GlcNAc2 oligosaccharides were located exclusively at Asn-glycosylation site 1 very close to the C terminus, whereas the Man(4-3)GlcNAc2 and biantennary complex oligosaccharides were located exclusively at site 2. This is the first report of the presence of poly-N-acetyllactosamine oligosaccharides in protozoa."	1991	Oct-25	266	30	20244-61	1939085	0
906	"Zamze, S"	Sialylated N-glycans in adult rat brain tissue--a widespread distribution of disialylated antennae in complex and hybrid structures	Eur J Biochem	"This paper extends our earlier work on the analysis of neutral N-glycans from adult rat brain to glycans carrying NeuAc residues as their sole charged groups. These structures comprised at least 40% of the total (acidic and neutral) N-glycan pool. Compounds were identified by a combination of endoglycosidase and exoglycosidase digestions, anion-exchange chromatography, normal and reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation-mass spectrometry and combined gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Mono-, di- and trisialylated components, together with components substituted with four (or more) NeuAc residues, showed abundances of approximately 12, 10, 7 and 7%, respectively, relative to the total N-glycan pool. In addition, neuraminidase digestion resulted in the neutralisation of a fraction of highly charged species, possibly indicating the presence of N-glycans substituted with short chains of polysialic acid. Sialylated bi-, tri- [mainly the (2,4)-branched isomer], tetraantennary complex, polylactosamine and hybrid structures were detected. Typically, for 'brain-type' N-glycosylation, these sialylated structures were variously modified by the presence of core alpha1-6-linked and outer-arm alpha1-3-linked fucose residues and by a bisecting GlcNAc. Structural groups such as sialyl Lewis(x) and NeuAc alpha2-3 substituted Galbeta1-4GlcNAc antennae were common. In contrast to the neutral glycans, however, a widespread distribution of terminal beta1-3-linked galactose residues was observed. The presence of beta1-3-linked galactose allowed for a high degree of sialylation as afforded by the presence of the NeuAc alpha2-3Galbeta1-3(NeuAc alpha2-6)GlcNAc structural group. This revealed a number of novel structures including the presence of tetraantennary N-glycans with more than one beta1-3galactose residue and (2,4)-branched triantennary oligosaccharides containing three such residues. Disialylated hybrid glycans containing beta1-3-linked galactose and 'polylactosamine' N-glycans with one to three terminal beta1-3galactose residues were additional novel features. The N-glycans modified by polysialylation lacked outer-arm fucose and bisecting GlcNAc residues but all contained one or more terminal beta1-3-linked galactose residues. These may be representative, therefore, of the polysialylated N-glycans expressed mainly on neural cell-adhesion molecules and known to be present in adult rat brain. The diversity of presentation of terminal sialylated groups in rat brain implies potential specificity for possible charge or lectin-mediated interactions. The distinguishing sets of sialylated structures described here are indicative of differences in the natural glycosylation processing pathways in different cell types within the central nervous system, a specificity that may be further magnified on the individual glycoproteins."	1998	Nov-15	258	1	243-70	9851715	304
907	"Zamze, S"	"Glycosylation of a CNS-specific extracellular matrix glycoprotein, tenascin-R, is dominated by O-linked sialylated glycans and ""brain-type"" neutral N-glycans"	Glycobiology	"As a member of the tenascin family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, tenascin-R is located exclusively in the CNS. It is believed to play a role in myelination and axonal stabilization and, through repulsive properties, may contribute to the lack of regeneration of CNS axons following damage. The contrary functions of the tenascins have been localized to the different structural domains of the protein. However, little is known concerning the influence of the carbohydrate conjugated to the many potential sites for N - and O -glycosylation (10-20% by weight). As a first analytical requirement, we show that >80% of the N -glycans in tenascin-R are neutral and dominated by complex biantennary structures. These display the ""brain-type"" characteristics of outer-arm- and core-fucosylation, a bisecting N -acetylglucosamine and, significantly, an abundance of antennae truncation. In some structures, truncation resulted in only a single mannose residue remaining on the 3-arm, a particularly unusual consequence of the N -glycan processing pathway. In contrast to brain tissue, hybrid and oligomannosidic N -glycans were either absent or in low abundance. A high relative abundance of O -linked sialylated glycans was found. This was associated with a significant potential for O -linked glycosylation sites and multivalent display of the sialic acid residues. These O -glycans were dominated by the disialylated structure, NeuAcalpha2-3Galbeta1-3(NeuAcalpha2-6)GalNAc. The possibility that these O -glycans enable tenascin-R to interact in the CNS either with the myelin associated glycoprotein or with sialoadhesin on activated microglia is discussed."	1999	Aug	9	8	823-31	10406848	0
908	"Zamze, S"	"A family of novel, acidic N-glycans in Bowes melanoma tissue plasminogen activator have L2/HNK-1-bearing antennae, many with sulfation of the fucosylated chitobiose core"	Eur J Biochem	"A family of about 20 novel acidic bi- and tri-antennary N-glycans, amounting to almost half those expressed on Bowes melanoma tissue-plasminogen activator (t-PA) were found to possess Galbeta1-->4GlcNAcbeta1-->, sulfated and sialylated GalNAcbeta1-->4GlcNAcbeta1--> or sulfated GlcAbeta1--> 3Galbeta1-->4GlcNAcbeta1--> antennae, of which those containing sulfated GlcA, depicting the L2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope, were preferentially located on the 6 arm. A proportion of the glycans were highly charged, because of multiple and variously distributed sulfation, some of which was located on the fucosylated chitobiose core. Multiple expression of the L2/HNK-1 epitope on a single glycan was observed. The most abundant compound was a biantennary glycan carrying sulfated GlcA on the 6-branched antenna and an alpha2-->6 sialylated GalNAc on the other. The N-glycosylation sequon containing Asn448, which is known to express all of the sulfate-carrying N-glycans contains, unusually, an arginine residue. An electrostatic interaction between this cationic amino acid and the core-sulfate group of the N-glycan is proposed to reduce mobility of the carbohydrate in the region of the t-PA active site. Because of the 'brain-type' nature of the N-glycans described in this neuro-ectodermal cell line, the possibility of neural t-PA interacting with the L2/HNK-1-recognizing molecule, laminin, of the central nervous system extracellular matrix is discussed."	2001	Jul	268	14	4063-78	11454001	411
909	"Zapun, A"	Conformation-independent binding of monoglucosylated ribonuclease B to calnexin	Cell	"Calnexin is a membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that associates transiently with newly synthesized N-linked glycoproteins in vivo. Using defined components, the binding of ribonuclease B (RNase B) Man7-Man9 glycoforms to the luminal domain of calnexin was observed in vitro only if RNase B was monoglucosylated. Binding was independent of the conformation of the glycoprotein. Calnexin protected monoglucosylated RNase B from the action of glucosidase II and PNGase F but not from that of Endo H, which completely released the protein from calnexin. These observations directly demonstrate that calnexin can act exclusively as a lectin."	1997	Jan-10	88	1	29-38	9019402	0
910	"Zavodszky, P"	The isolation of a globular fragment of rabbit immunoglobulin G probably corresponding to the intact C gamma 2 homology region	Mol Immunol		1979	Nov	16	11	899-905	118917	0
911	"Zhu, J"	Identification of a novel 0.7-kb polyadenylated transcript in the LAT promoter region of HSV-1 that is strain specific and may contribute to virulence	Virology	"Herpes Simplex virus expresses latency-associated transcripts (LATs) the function of which remains obscure despite increasing knowledge of their structure and expression. Upstream of the LAT coding region is a region of the genome that is poorly characterized although it lies in an area that is responsible for modulation of reactivation efficiency in two different animal models. Transcript mapping with strains 17, McKrae, KOS, and F has revealed strain differences in this region of the viral genome. Strain 17 and McKrae expressed a novel polyadenylated 0.7-kb transcript that is absent from KOS and F. This transcript is expressed in the LAT direction and has the kinetics of a true late gene during the lytic cycle of infection. A deletion mutant, 17DeltaBsa, which does not express the 0.7-kb RNA, is less virulent than the parental strain 17. A rescuant with F sequence (17DeltaBsa/RF) shows virulence similar to F, whereas a rescuant with strain 17 sequence (17DeltaBsa/R17) is similar to strain 17. Virulence is altered by deletion or substitution in the region encoding the 0.7-kb transcript (BsaI-BsaI); however, reactivation in the mouse explant cocultivation assay or the adrenergically induced rabbit reactivation model remained unchanged. The importance of this region for virulence is discussed."	1999	Dec-20	265	2	296-307	10600601	0
912	"Zitzmann, N"	"Imino sugars inhibit the formation and secretion of bovine viral diarrhea virus, a pestivirus model of hepatitis C virus: implications for the development of broad spectrum anti-hepatitis virus agents"	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	"One function of N-linked glycans is to assist in the folding of glycoproteins by mediating interactions of the lectin-like chaperone proteins calnexin and calreticulin with nascent glycoproteins. These interactions can be prevented by inhibitors of the alpha-glucosidases, such as N-butyl-deoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) and N-nonyl-DNJ (NN-DNJ), and this causes some proteins to be misfolded and retained within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). We have shown previously that the NN-DNJ-induced misfolding of one of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) envelope glycoproteins prevents the formation and secretion of virus in vitro and that this inhibitor alters glycosylation and reduces the viral levels in an animal model of chronic HBV infection. This led us to investigate the effect of glucosidase inhibitors on another ER-budding virus, bovine viral diarrhea virus, a tissue culture surrogate of human hepatitis C virus (HCV). Here we show that in MDBK cells alpha-glucosidase inhibitors prevented the formation and secretion of infectious bovine viral diarrhea virus. Data also are presented showing that NN-DNJ, compared with NB-DNJ, exhibits a prolonged retention in liver in vivo. Because viral secretion is selectively hypersensitive to glucosidase inhibition relative to the secretion of cellular proteins, the possibility that glucosidase inhibitors could be used as broad-based antiviral hepatitis agents is discussed. A single drug against HBV, HCV, and, possibly, HDV, which together chronically infect more than 400 million people worldwide, would be of great therapeutic value."	1999	Oct-12	96	21	11878-82	10518544	0
913	"Zitzmann, N"	Protein structure controls the processing of the N-linked oligosaccharides and glycosylphosphatidylinositol glycans of variant surface glycoproteins expressed in bloodstream form Trypanosoma brucei	Glycobiology	"The variant surface glycoproteins (VSGs) of Trypanosoma brucei are a family of homodimeric glycoproteins that adopt similar shapes. An individual trypanosome expresses one VSG at a time in the form of a dense protective mono-layer on the plasma membrane. VSG genes are expressed from one of several polycistronic transcription units (expression sites) that contain several expression site associated genes. We used a transformed trypanosome clone expressing two different VSGs (VSG121 and VSG221) from the same expression site (that of VSG221) to establish whether the genotype of the trypanosome clone or the VSG structure itself controls VSG N-linked oligosaccharide and GPI anchor glycan processing. In-gel release and fluorescent labeling of N-linked oligosaccharides and on-blot fluorescent labeling and release of GPI anchor glycans were employed to compare the carbohydrate structures of VSG121 and VSG221 when expressed individually in wild-type trypanosome clones and when expressed together in the transformed trypanosome clone. The data indicate that the genotype of the trypanosome clone has no effect on the N-linked oligosaccharide structures present on a given VSG variant and only a minor effect on the GPI anchor glycans. The latter is most likely an effect of changes in inter-VSG packing when two VGSs are expressed simultaneously. Thus, N-linked oligosaccharide and GPI anchor processing enzymes appear to be constitutively expressed in bloodstream form African trypanosomes and the tertiary and quaternary structures of the VSG homodimers appear to dictate the processing and glycoform microheterogeneity of surface-expressed VSGs."	2000	Mar	10	3	243-9	10704523	0
914	"Zitzmann, N"	Glycosylation: disease targets and therapy	Adv Exp Med Biol		2005		564		01-Feb	16400797	0
915	"Kuster, B"	Rapid approach for sequencing neutral oligosaccharides by exoglycosidase digestion and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry.	J Mass Spectrom	"A new way of combining exoglycosidase digestion with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI/TOF-MS) is described which permits the structural characterization of underivatized oligosaccharides on low picomole amounts of starting material. The key feature of the new approach is that an oligosaccharide sample can be recovered after a MALDI experiment and a series of sequential exoglycosidase digestions can be carried out on that sample within a single working day. The following steps are involved: (i) recording a molecular mass profile of the starting material by MALDI/TOF-MS using a mixture of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 1-hydroxyisoquinoline as the matrix; (ii) recovery of the sample from the target and removal of the matrix by droplet dialysis (molecular mass cut-off 500 Da); (iii) exoglycosidase digestion in a volume of 1 microliter; (iv) removal of the incubation buffer by droplet dialysis; (v) removal of the enzyme by absorption on a Nafion membrane and (vi) start of the next cycle from (i). The method exhibits the following advantages over traditional oligosaccharide sequencing techniques: (i) analysis of digestion products by MALDI/TOF-MS is much faster than by chromatographic techniques; (ii) no derivatization of the analyte is required; (iii) exoglycosidase digestions work faster in small reaction volumes because substrate concentrations are closer to the Km of the enzyme; (iv) advanced sample handling techniques ensure reduced losses and (v) no sample splitting is needed for analysis and therefore the sensitivity of the overall method is increased. The method is illustrated by the analysis of isolated glycans and complex mixtures derived from chicken ovalbumin and human immunoglobulin G."	1996	Oct	31	10	1131-40	8916422	221
916	"Martinez-Pomares, L"	Cell-specific glycoforms of sialoadhesin and CD45 are counter-receptors for the cysteine-rich domain of the mannose receptor.	J Biol Chem	"We previously reported that CR-Fc, an Fc chimeric protein containing the cysteine-rich (CR) domain of the mannose receptor, binds to marginal zone metallophilic macrophages (Mo) and B cell areas in the spleen and to subcapsular sinus Mo in lymph nodes of naive mice (CR-Fc(+) cells). Several CR-Fc ligands were found in spleen and lymph node tissue lysates using ligand blots. In this paper we report the identification of two of these ligands as sialoadhesin (Sn), an Mo-specific membrane molecule, and the leukocyte common antigen, CD45. CR-Fc bound selectively to Sn purified from spleen and lymph nodes and to two low molecular weight isoforms of CD45 in a sugar-dependent manner. CR-Fc binding and non-binding forms of Sn, probably derived from CR-Fc(+) and CR-Fc(-) cells respectively, were selected from spleen lysates. Analysis of the glycan pool associated with the CR-Fc-binding form revealed the presence of charged structures resistant to sialidase, absent in the non-binding form, that could correspond to sulfated structures. These results confirm the identification of the CR region of the mannose receptor as a lectin. We also demonstrate that the same glycoprotein expressed in different cells of the same organ can display distinct sugar epitopes that determine its binding properties."	1999	Dec	274	49	35211-8	10575006	348
917	"Webber, D"	Sialylation of urinary prothrombin fragment 1 is implicated as a contributory factor in the risk of calcium oxalate kidney stone formation.	FEBS J	"Urinary glycoproteins are important inhibitors of calcium oxalate crystallization and adhesion of crystals to renal cells, both of which are key mechanisms in kidney stone formation. This has been attributed to glycosylation of the proteins. In South Africa, the black population rarely form stones (incidence < 1%) compared with the white population (incidence 12-15%). A previous study involving urinary prothrombin fragment 1 from both populations demonstrated superior inhibitory activity associated with the protein from the black group. In the present study, we compared N-linked and O-linked oligosaccharides released from urinary prothrombin fragment 1 isolated from the urine of healthy and stone-forming subjects in both populations to elucidate the relationship between glycosylation and calcium oxalate stone pathogenesis. The O-glycans of both control groups and the N-glycans of the black control samples were significantly more sialylated than those of the white stone-formers. This demonstrates a possible association between low-percentage sialylation and kidney stone disease and provides a potential diagnostic method for a predisposition to kidney stones that could lead to the implementation of a preventative regimen. These results indicate that sialylated glycoforms of urinary prothrombin fragment 1 afford protection against calcium oxalate stone formation, possibly by coating the surface of calcium oxalate crystals. This provides a rationale for the established roles of urinary prothrombin fragment 1, namely reducing the potential for crystal aggregation and inhibiting crystal-cell adhesion by masking the interaction of the calcium ions on the crystal surface with the renal cell surface along the nephron."	2006	Jul	273	13	3024-37	16817853	644
918	"Wopereis, S"	Abnormal glycosylation with hypersialylated O-glycans in patients with Sialuria.	Biochim Biophys Acta	"Sialuria is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by coarse face, hepatomegaly and recurrent respiratory tract infections. The genetic defect in this disorder results in a loss of feedback control of UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine-kinase by CMP-N-acetylneuraminic acid (CMP-NeuAc) resulting in a substantial overproduction of cytoplasmic free sialic acid. This study addresses fibroblast CMP-NeuAc levels and N- and O-glycan sialylation of serum proteins from Sialuria patients. CMP-NeuAc levels were measured with HPLC in fibroblasts. Isoelectric focusing (IEF) of serum transferrin and of apolipoprotein C-III (apoC-III) was performed on serum of three Sialuria patients. Isoforms of these proteins can be used as specific markers for the biosynthesis of N- and core 1 O-glycans. Furthermore, total N- and O-linked glycans from serum proteins were analyzed by HPLC. HPLC showed a clear overproduction of CMP-NeuAc in fibroblasts of a Sialuria patient. Minor changes were found for serum N-glycans and hypersialylation was found for core 1 O-glycans on serum apoC-III and on total serum O-glycans in Sialuria patients. HPLC showed an increased ratio of disialylated over monosialylated core 1 O-glycans. The hypersialylation of core 1 O-glycans is due to the increase of NeuAcalpha2,6-containing structures (mainly NeuAcalpha2-3Galbeta1-3[NeuAcalpha2-6]GalNAc). This may relate to KM differences between GalNAc-alpha2,6-sialyltransferase and alpha2,3-sialyltransferases. This is the first study demonstrating that the genetic defect in Sialuria results in a CMP-NeuAc overproduction. Subsequently, increased amounts of alpha2,6-linked NeuAc were found on serum core 1 O-glycans from Sialuria patients. N-glycosylation of serum proteins seems largely unaffected. Sialuria is the first metabolic disorder presenting with hypersialylated O-glycans."	2006	Jun	1762	6	598-607	16769205	654
919	"Jayachandran, R"	Oligosaccharides modulate the apoptotic activity of glycodelin.	Glycobiology	"GlycodelinA (GdA), a multifunctional glycoprotein secreted at high concentrations by the uterine endometrium during the early phases of pregnancy, carries glycan chains on asparagines at positions N28 and N63. GdA purified from amniotic fluid is known to be a suppressor of T-cell proliferation, an inducer of T-cell apoptosis, and an inhibitor of sperm-zona binding in contrast to its glycoform, glycodelinS (GdS), which is secreted by the seminal vesicles into the seminal plasma. The oligosaccharide chains of GdA terminate in sialic acid residues, whereas those of GdS are not sialylated but are heavily fucosylated. Our previous work has shown that the apoptogenic activity of GdA resides in the protein backbone, and we have also demonstrated the importance of sialylation for the manifestation of GdA-induced apoptosis. Recombinant glycodelin (Gd) expressed in the Sf21 insect cell line yielded an apoptotically active Gd; however, the same gene expressed in the insect cell line Tni produced apoptotically inactive Gd, as observed with the gene expressed in the Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line and earlier in Pichia pastoris. Glycan analysis of the Tni and Sf21 cell line-expressed Gd proteins reveals differences in their glycan structures, which modulate the manifestation of apoptogenic activity of Gd. Through apoptotic assays carried out with the wild-type (WT) and glycosylation mutants of Gd expressed in Sf21 and Tni cells before and after mannosidase digestion, we conclude that the accessibility to the apoptogenic region of Gd is influenced by the size of the glycans."	2006	Nov	16	11	1052-63	16854946	663
920	"Omtvedt, LA"	Glycan analysis of monoclonal antibodies secreted in deposition disorders indicates that subsets of plasma cells differentially process IgG glycans.	Arthritis Rheum	"OBJECTIVE: To compare the glycosylation of polyclonal serum IgG heavy chains in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with that of monoclonal serum IgG heavy chains in the same patient during an episode of heavy-chain deposition disease (HCDD), to establish whether glycosylation processing is specific for subsets of B cells. METHODS: Serum IgG was purified using a HiTrap protein G column. Immunoglobulins were run on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gels, and IgG glycans were isolated from gel bands and fluorescently labeled. Glycans were analyzed by normal-phase high-performance liquid chromatography and by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry. RESULTS: The glycosylation of serum immunoglobulins from a patient with seronegative RA and HCDD was analyzed. The predominant immunoglobulin was a truncated glycosylated gamma3 heavy chain, and a small amount of polyclonal IgG was also present. The glycan profile showed that the monoclonal gamma3 heavy chain contained fully galactosylated biantennary glycans with significantly less fucose but more sialic acid than in IgG3 from healthy controls. In contrast, the polyclonal IgG showed an RA-like profile, with a predominance of fucosylated biantennary glycans and low levels of galactosylation. The glycan profile of serum IgG obtained from the same patient during disease remission resembled a typical RA profile. CONCLUSION: These data indicate that different types of B cells process a particular set of IgG glycoforms."	2006	Oct-30	54	11	3433-3440	17075835	669
921	"Tsiftsoglou, SA"	Human complement factor I glycosylation: Structural and functional characterisation of the N-linked oligosaccharides.	Biochim Biophys Acta	"Factor I (fI) is a key serine protease that modulates the complement cascade by regulating the levels of C3 convertases. Human fI circulates in plasma as a heavily N-glycosylated (25-27% w/w) heterodimer composed of two disulphide linked chains, each carrying three N-linked oligosaccharide chains. It had been suggested that the oligosaccharides may have both structural and functional roles in the interactions with the natural substrate and the cofactor during a catalysis. The N-linked glycans of each fI chain were characterised in detail and the analysis revealed a similar composition of the glycan pools with both chains heavily sialylated. Disialylated structures were in excess over monosialylated ones: 55% over 40% for the heavy chain and 62% over 35% for the light chain. The dominant type of glycan identified on both chains was A(2)G(2)S(2), a biantennary structure with chains terminating in sialic acid linked to galactose. The glycan characterisation facilitated a strategy for the partial deglycosylation of the enzyme. Assessment of the proteolytic activities of the native and partially deglycosylated forms of fI showed that both forms of the enzyme have very similar proteolytic activities against C3(NH(3)) indicating that the charged glycans of fI do not influence the fI-cofactor-substrate interactions."	2006	Sep-16				17055788	674
922	"Oortwijn, BD"	Differential Glycosylation of Polymeric and Monomeric IgA: A Possible Role in Glomerular Inflammation in IgA Nephropathy	J Am Soc Nephrol	"IgA nephropathy (IgAN) is characterized by mesangial deposition of polymeric IgA1 (pIgA1) and complement. Complement activation via mannose-binding lectin and the lectin pathway is associated with disease progression. Furthermore, recent studies have indicated a possible role for secretory IgA. IgAN is associated with abnormalities in circulating IgA, including aberrant O-linked glycosylation. This study characterized and compared functional properties and N-linked glycosylation of highly purified monomeric IgA (mIgA) and pIgA from patients with IgAN and control subjects. Total serum IgA was affinity-purified from patients (n = 11) and control subjects (n = 11) followed by size separation. pIgA but not mIgA contained secretory IgA, and its concentration was significantly higher in patients with IgAN than in control subjects. Both in patients with IgAN and in control subjects, IgA binding to the GalNAc-specific lectin Helix Aspersa and to mannose-binding lectin was much stronger for pIgA than for mIgA. Furthermore, binding of IgA to mesangial cells largely was restricted to polymeric IgA. Binding of pIgA to mesangial cells resulted in increased production of IL-8, predominantly with IgA from patients with IgAN. Quantitative analysis of N-linked glycosylation of IgA heavy chains showed significant differences in glycan composition between mIgA and pIgA, including the presence of oligomannose exclusively on pIgA. In conclusion, binding and activation of mesangial cells, as well as lectin pathway activation, is a predominant characteristic of pIgA as opposed to mIgA. Furthermore, pIgA has different N-glycans, which may recruit lectins of the inflammatory pathway. These results underscore the role of pIgA in glomerular inflammation in IgAN."	2006	Oct-18				17050773	675
999	submitted	\N	\N	\N	\N	\N	\N	\N	\N	\N	999
